it to heaven. I also became a poet, and for one year lived
in a Paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also
might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of
Homer and Shakspeare are consecrated. You are well
acquainted with my failure, and how heavily I bore the
disappointment. But just at that time I inherited the fortune
of my cousin, and my thoughts were turned into the
channel of their earlier bent.

Six years have passed since I resolved on my present
undertaking. I can, even now, remember the hour from
which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise. I commenced
by inuring my body to hardship. I accompanied
the whale-fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea;
I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of
sleep; I often worked harder than the common sailors during
the day, and devoted my nights to the study of mathematics,
the theory of medicine, and those branches of physical
science from which a naval adventurer might derive the
greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself
as an under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted
myself to admiration. I must own I felt a little proud,
when my captain offered me the second dignity in the
vessel, and entreated me to remain with the greatest earnestness;
so valuable did he consider my services.

And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish
some great purpose? My life might have been passed in
ease and luxury; but I preferred glory to every enticement
that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging
voice would answer in the affirmative! My courage and
my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my
spirits are often depressed. I am about to proceed on a
long and difficult voyage, the emergencies of which will
demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise
the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain my own,
when theirs are failing.

This is the most favourable period for travelling in
Russia. They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges;
the motion is pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable
than that of an English stage-coach. The cold is not
excessive, if you are wrapped in furs,--a dress which I have
