feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathise
with me; whose eyes would reply to mine. You
may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel
the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet
courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious
mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend
my plans. How would such a friend repair the faults of
your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution, and too
impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me
that I am self-educated: for the first fourteen years of my
life I ran wild on a common, and read nothing but our
uncle Thomas’s books of voyages. At that age I became
acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own country;
but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to
derive its most important benefits from such a conviction,
that I perceived the necessity of becoming acquainted with
more languages than that of my native country. Now I
am twenty-eight, and am in reality more illiterate than
many schoolboys of fifteen. It is true that I have thought
more, and that my day dreams are more extended and
magnificent; but they want (as the painters call it) {{keeping}};
and I greatly need a friend who would have sense enough
not to despise me as romantic, and affection enough for me
to endeavour to regulate my mind.

Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find
no friend on the wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel,
among merchants and seamen. Yet some feelings, unallied
to the dross of human nature, beat even in these
rugged bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of
wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of
glory: or rather, to word my phrase more characteristically,
of advancement in his profession. He is an Englishman,
and in the midst of national and professional prejudices,
unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments
of humanity. I first became acquainted with
him on board a whale vessel: finding that he was unemployed
in this city, I easily engaged him to assist in my
enterprise.

The master is a person of an excellent disposition, and
is remarkable in the ship for his gentleness and the
