encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float
about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this
time to rest for a few hours.

In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went
upon deck, and found all the sailors busy on one side of
the vessel, apparently talking to some one in the sea. It
was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which
had drifted towards us in the night, on a large fragment of
ice. Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human
being within it, whom the sailors were persuading to enter
the vessel. He was not, as the other traveller seemed to
be, a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island, but an
European. When I appeared on deck, the master said,
"Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish
on the open sea."

On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English,
although with a foreign accent. "Before I come on board
your vessel," said he, "will you have the kindness to
inform me whither you are bound?"

You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a
question addressed to me from a man on the brink of destruction,
and to whom I should have supposed that my
vessel would have been a resource which he would not have
exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can
afford. I replied, however, that we were on a voyage of
discovery towards the northern pole.

Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied, and consented
to come on board. Good God! Margaret, if you had seen
the man who thus capitulated for his safety, your surprise
would have been boundless. His limbs were nearly frozen,
and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering.
I never saw a man in so wretched a condition. We attempted
to carry him into the cabin; but as soon as he had
quitted the fresh air, he fainted. We accordingly brought
him back to the deck, and restored him to animation by
rubbing him with brandy, and forcing him to swallow a
small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we
wrapped him up in blankets, and placed him near the chimney
of the kitchen stove. By slow degrees he recovered,
and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully.
