poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after the
interment of his friend, he conducted her to Geneva, and
placed her under the protection of a relation. Two years
after this event Caroline became his wife.

There was a considerable difference between the ages of
my parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only
closer in bonds of devoted affection. There was a sense of
justice in my father’s upright mind, which rendered it
necessary that he should approve highly to love strongly.
Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late-discovered
unworthiness of one beloved, and so was disposed
to set a greater value on tried worth. There was a
show of gratitude and worship in his attachment to my
mother, differing wholly from the doating fondness of age,
for it was inspired by reverence for her virtues, and a
desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible
grace to his behaviour to her. Every thing
was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience. He
strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the
gardener, from every rougher wind, and to surround her
with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in
her soft and benevolent mind. Her health, and even the
tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken
by what she had gone through. During the two years that
had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had
gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately
after their union they sought the pleasant climate
of Italy, and the change of scene and interest attendant on
a tour through that land of wonders, as a restorative for her
weakened frame.

From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their
eldest child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied
them in their rambles. I remained for several years
their only child. Much as they were attached to each
other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection
from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me. My
mother’s tender caresses, and my father’s smile of benevolent
pleasure while regarding me, are my first recollections. I
was their plaything and their idol, and something
