the lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion.
It was my temper to avoid a crowd, and to attach
myself fervently to a few. I was indifferent, therefore, to
my schoolfellows in general; but I united myself in the
bonds of the closest friendship to one among them. Henry
Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva. He was a
boy of singular talent and fancy. He loved enterprise,
hardship, and even danger, for its own sake. He was
deeply read in books of chivalry and romance. He composed
heroic songs, and began to write many a tale of
enchantment and knightly adventure. He tried to make
us act plays, and to enter into masquerades, in which the
characters were drawn from the heroes of Roncesvalles, of
the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous train
who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from
the hands of the infidels.

No human being could have passed a happier childhood
than myself. My parents were possessed by the very spirit
of kindness and indulgence. We felt that they were not
the tyrants to rule our lot according to their caprice, but
the agents and creators of all the many delights which we
enjoyed. When I mingled with other families, I distinctly
discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude
assisted the developement of filial love.

My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement;
but by some law in my temperature they were
turned, not towards childish pursuits, but to an eager desire
to learn, and not to learn all things indiscriminately.
I confess that neither the structure of languages, nor the
code of governments, nor the politics of various states,
possessed attractions for me. It was the secrets of heaven
and earth that I desired to learn; and whether it was the
outward substance of things, or the inner spirit of nature
and the mysterious soul of man that occupied me, still my
enquiries were directed to the metaphysical, or, in its highest
sense, the physical secrets of the world.

Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with
the moral relations of things. The busy stage of life, the
virtues of heroes, and the actions of men, were his theme;
and his hope and his dream was to become one among those
