house; and so soon as the dazzling light vanished, the oak
had disappeared, and nothing remained but a blasted
stump. When we visited it the next morning, we found the
tree shattered in a singular manner. It was not splintered
by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribands of wood.
I never beheld any thing so utterly destroyed.

Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious
laws of electricity. On this occasion a man of great
research in natural philosophy was with us, and, excited by
this catastrophe, he entered on the explanation of a theory
which he had formed on the subject of electricity and galvanism,
which was at once new and astonishing to me. All
that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa,
Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination;
but by some fatality the overthrow of these men
disinclined me to pursue my accustomed studies. It
seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known.
All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew
despicable. By one of those caprices of the mind, which
we are perhaps most subject to in early youth, I at once
gave up my former occupations; set down natural history
and all its progeny as a deformed and abortive creation;
and entertained the greatest disdain for a would-be science,
which could never even step within the threshold of real
knowledge. In this mood of mind I betook myself to the
mathematics, and the branches of study appertaining to
that science, as being built upon secure foundations, and so
worthy of my consideration.

Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such
slight ligaments are we bound to prosperity or ruin. When
I look back, it seems to me as if this almost miraculous
change of inclination and will was the immediate suggestion
of the guardian angel of my life – the last effort
made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that
was even then hanging in the stars, and ready to envelope
me. Her victory was announced by an unusual tranquillity
and gladness of soul, which followed the relinquishing
of my ancient and latterly tormenting studies. It was thus
that I was to be taught to associate evil with their prosecution,
happiness with their disregard.
