nearly black. His person was short, but remarkably erect;
and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard. He began his
lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry, and
the various improvements made by different men of learning,
pronouncing with fervour the names of the most distinguished
discoverers. He then took a cursory view of
the present state of the science, and explained many of its
elementary terms. After having made a few preparatory
experiments, he concluded with a panegyric upon modern
chemistry, the terms of which I shall never forget:--

“The ancient teachers of this science,” said he, “promised
impossibilities, and performed nothing. The modern
masters promise very little; they know that metals
cannot be transmuted, and that the elixir of life is a
chimera. But these philosophers, whose hands seem only
made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to pore over the microscope
or crucible, have indeed performed miracles. They
penetrate into the recesses of nature, and show how she
works in her hiding places. They ascend into the heavens:
they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the
nature of the air we breathe. They have acquired new
and almost unlimited powers; they can command the
thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even mock
the invisible world with its own shadows.”

Such were the professor’s words--rather let me say such
the words of fate, enounced to destroy me. As he went on, I
felt as if my soul were grappling with a palpable enemy;
one by one the various keys were touched which formed
the mechanism of my being: chord after chord was
sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought,
one conception, one purpose. So much has been done,
exclaimed the soul of Frankenstein,--more, far more, will I
achieve: treading in the steps already marked, I will
pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to
the world the deepest mysteries of creation.

I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being
was in a state of insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order
would thence arise, but I had no power to produce it. By
degrees, after the morning’s dawn, sleep came. I awoke,
and my yesternight’s thoughts were as a dream. There only
