masters. Professor Krempe often asked me, with a sly
smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on? whilst M. Waldman
expressed the most heart-felt exultation in my progress.
Two years passed in this manner, during which I paid no
visit to Geneva, but was engaged, heart and soul, in the
pursuit of some discoveries, which I hoped to make. None
but those who have experienced them can conceive of the
enticements of science. In other studies you go as far as
others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to
know; but in a scientific pursuit there is continual food
for discovery and wonder. A mind of moderate capacity,
which closely pursues one study, must infallibly arrive at
great proficiency in that study; and I, who continually
sought the attainment of one object of pursuit, and was
solely wrapt up in this, improved so rapidly, that, at the
end of two years, I made some discoveries in the improvement
of some chemical instruments, which procured me
great esteem and admiration at the university. When I
had arrived at this point, and had become as well acquainted
with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as depended
on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt,
my residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements,
I thought of returning to my friends and my
native town, when an incident happened that protracted
my stay.

One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted
my attention was the structure of the human frame, and,
indeed, any animal endued with life. Whence, I often
asked myself, did the principle of life proceed? It was a
bold question, and one which has ever been considered as a
mystery; yet with how many things are we upon the brink
of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did
not restrain our enquiries. I revolved these circumstances
in my mind, and determined thenceforth to apply myself
more particularly to those branches of natural philosophy
which relate to physiology. Unless I had been animated
by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application
to this study would have been irksome, and almost intolerable.
To examine the causes of life, we must first
have recourse to death. I became acquainted with the
