science of anatomy: but this was not sufficient; I must
also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human
body. In my education my father had taken the greatest
precautions that my mind should be impressed with no
supernatural horrors. I do not ever remember to have
trembled at a tale of superstition, or to have feared the
apparition of a spirit. Darkness had no effect upon my
fancy; and a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle
of bodies deprived of life, which, from being the seat of
beauty and strength, had become food for the worm. Now
I was led to examine the cause and progress of this decay,
and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel-houses.
My attention was fixed upon every object the
most insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings.
I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted;
I beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming
cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders
of the eye and brain. I paused, examining and analysing
all the minutiæ of causation, as exemplified in the change
from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst
of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon me – a light
so brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became
dizzy with the immensity of the prospect which it
illustrated, I was surprised, that among so many men of
genius who had directed their enquiries towards the same
science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing
a secret.

Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman.
The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens, than
that which I now affirm is true. Some miracle might have
produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct
and probable. After days and nights of incredible labour
and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of generation
and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing
animation upon lifeless matter.

The astonishment which I had at first experienced on
this discovery soon gave place to delight and rapture.
After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at
once at the summit of my desires, was the most gratifying
consummation of my toils. But this discovery was so
