considered the improvement which every day takes place in
science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present
attempts would at least lay the foundations of future
success. Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity
of my plan as any argument of its impracticability.
It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a
human being. As the minuteness of the parts formed a
great hinderance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my
first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature; that
is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably
large. After having formed this determination, and having
spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging
my materials, I began.

No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore
me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of
success. Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds,
which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of
light into our dark world. A new species would bless me
as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures
would owe their being to me. No father could claim
the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve
theirs. Pursuing these reflections, I thought, that if I
could bestow animation upon lifeless matter, I might in
process of time (although I now found it impossible) renew
life where death had apparently devoted the body to
corruption.

These thoughts supported my spirits, while I pursued
my undertaking with unremitting ardour. My cheek had
grown pale with study, and my person had become emaciated
with confinement. Sometimes, on the very brink of
certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the
next day or the next hour might realise. One secret which
I alone possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated
myself; and the moon gazed on my midnight labours,
while, with unrelaxed and breathless eagerness, I pursued
nature to her hiding-places. Who shall conceive the horrors
of my secret toil, as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps
of the grave, or tortured the living animal to animate the
lifeless clay? My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim
with the remembrance; but then a resistless, and almost
