frantic, impulse, urged me forward; I seemed to have lost
all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit. It was indeed
but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to
operate, I had returned to my old habits. I collected bones
from charnel-houses; and disturbed, with profane fingers,
the tremendous secrets of the human frame. In a solitary
chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house, and separated
from all the other apartments by a gallery and staircase,
I kept my workshop of filthy creation: my eye-balls
were starting from their sockets in attending to the details
of my employment. The dissecting room and the slaughter-house
furnished many of my materials; and often did my
human nature turn with loathing from my occupation,
whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually
increased, I brought my work near to a conclusion.

The summer months passed while I was thus engaged,
heart and soul, in one pursuit. It was a most beautiful
season; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest,
or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage: but my eyes
were insensible to the charms of nature. And the same
feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me
caused me also to forget those friends who were so many
miles absent, and whom I had not seen for so long a time.
I knew my silence disquieted them; and I well remembered
the words of my father: "I know that while you are pleased
with yourself, you will think of us with affection, and we
shall hear regularly from you. You must pardon me if I
regard any interruption in your correspondence as a proof
that your other duties are equally neglected."

I knew well therefore what would be my father's feelings;
but I could not tear my thoughts from my employment,
loathsome in itself, but which had taken an irresistible
hold of my imagination. I wished, as it were, to
procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection until
the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my
nature, should be completed.

I then thought that my father would be unjust if he
ascribed my neglect to vice, or faultiness on my part; but I
am now convinced that he was justified in conceiving that
