
CHAPTER V.

It was on a dreary night of November, that I beheld the
accomplishment of my toils. With an anxiety that almost
amounted to agony, I collected the instruments of life
around me, that I might infuse a spark of being into the
lifeless thing that lay at my feet. It was already one in
the morning; the rain pattered dismally against the panes,
and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer
of the half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye
of the creature open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive
motion agitated its limbs.

How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or
how delineate the wretch whom with such infinite pains
and care I had endeavoured to form? His limbs were in
proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful.
Beautiful! – Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered
the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of
a lustrous black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness;
but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid
contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the
same colour as the dun white sockets in which they were
set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.

The different accidents of life are not so changeable as
the feelings of human nature. I had worked hard for
nearly two years, for the sole purpose of infusing life into
an inanimate body. For this I had deprived myself of rest
and health. I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded
moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty
of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust
filled my heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the being
I had created, I rushed out of the room, and continued a
long time traversing my bedchamber, unable to compose my
mind to sleep. At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult
I had before endured; and I threw myself on the bed in
my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness.
But it was in vain: I slept, indeed, but I was
disturbed by the wildest dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth,
in the bloom of health, walking in the streets of
