Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her; but
as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid
with the hue of death; her features appeared to change,
and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in
my arms; a shroud enveloped her form, and I saw the
grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel. I started
from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead,
my teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed:
when, by the dim and yellow light of the moon, as it
forced its way through the window shutters, I beheld the
wretch – the miserable monster whom I had created. He
held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they
may be called, were fixed on me. His jaws opened, and
he muttered some inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled
his cheeks. He might have spoken, but I did not hear; one
hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I
escaped, and rushed down stairs. I took refuge in the courtyard
belonging to the house which I inhabited; where I
remained during the rest of the night, walking up and
down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively, catching
and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the
approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I had so
miserably given life.

Oh! no mortal could support the horror of that countenance.
A mummy again endued with animation could not
be so hideous as that wretch. I had gazed on him while
unfinished; he was ugly then; but when those muscles and
joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
such as even Dante could not have conceived.

I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse
beat so quickly and hardly, that I felt the palpitation of
every artery; at others, I nearly sank to the ground
through languor and extreme weakness. Mingled with this
horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that
had been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space
were now become a hell to me; and the change was so
rapid, the overthrow so complete!

Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned, and discovered
to my sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt,
its white steeple and clock, which indicated the
