sixth hour. The porter opened the gates of the court, which
had that night been my asylum, and I issued into the
streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to
avoid the wretch whom I feared every turning of the street
would present to my view. I did not dare return to the
apartment which I inhabited, but felt impelled to hurry on,
although drenched by the rain which poured from a black
and comfortless sky.

I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring,
by bodily exercise, to ease the load that weighed
upon my mind. I traversed the streets, without any clear
conception of where I was, or what I was doing. My
heart palpitated in the sickness of fear; and I hurried on
with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:--

 "Like one who, on a lonely road,
 Doth walk in fear and dread,
 And, having once turned round, walks on,
 And turns no more his head;
 Because he knows a frightful fiend
 Doth close behind him tread."[1]

Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at
which the various diligences and carriages usually stopped.
Here I paused, I knew not why; but I remained some minutes
with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me
from the other end of the street. As it drew nearer, I observed
that it was the Swiss diligence: it stopped just where
I was standing; and, on the door being opened, I perceived
Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out.
"My dear Frankenstein," exclaimed he, "how glad I am
to see you! how fortunate that you should be here at the
very moment of my alighting!"

Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his
presence brought back to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth,
and all those scenes of home so dear to my recollection.
I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my
horror and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first
time during many months, calm and serene joy. I welcomed
my friend, therefore, in the most cordial manner,
and we walked towards my college. Clerval continued
talking for some time about our mutual friends, and his own
