
good fortune in being permitted to come to Ingolstadt. “You
may easily believe,” said he, “how great was the difficulty
to persuade my father that all necessary knowledge
was not comprised in the noble art of book-keeping; and,
indeed, I believe I left him incredulous to the last, for his
constant answer to my unwearied entreaties was the same
as that of the Dutch schoolmaster in the Vicar of Wakefield:– ‘I
have ten thousand florins a year without
Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.’ But his affection
for me at length overcame his dislike of learning, and he
has permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the
land of knowledge.”

“It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell
me how you left my father, brothers, and Elizabeth.”

“Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that
they hear from you so seldom. By the by, I mean to
lecture you a little upon their account myself. – But, my
dear Frankenstein,” continued he, stopping short, and gazing
full in my face, “I did not before remark how very ill you
appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been
watching for several nights.”

“You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply
engaged in one occupation, that I have not allowed myself
sufficient rest, as you see: but I hope, I sincerely hope,
that all these employments are now at an end, and that I
am at length free.”

I trembled excessively; I could not endure to think of,
and far less to allude to, the occurrences of the preceding
night. I walked with a quick pace, and we soon arrived
at my college. I then reflected, and the thought made me
shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my apartment
might still be there, alive, and walking about. I dreaded
to behold this monster; but I feared still more that Henry
should see him. Entreating him, therefore, to remain a
few minutes at the bottom of the stairs, I darted up towards
my own room. My hand was already on the lock of the
door before I recollected myself. I then paused; and a
cold shivering came over me. I threw the door forcibly
open, as children are accustomed to do when they expect a
spectre to stand in waiting for them on the other side; but
