nothing appeared. I stepped fearfully in: the apartment
was empty; and my bed-room was also freed from its
hideous guest. I could hardly believe that so great a good
fortune could have befallen me; but when I became assured
that my enemy had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for
joy, and ran down to Clerval.

We ascended into my room, and the servant presently
brought breakfast; but I was unable to contain myself. It
was not joy only that possessed me; I felt my flesh tingle
with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse beat rapidly. I
was unable to remain for a single instant in the same place;
I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed
aloud. Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy
on his arrival; but when he observed me more attentively,
he saw a wildness in my eyes for which he could not account;
and my loud, unrestrained, heartless laughter, frightened
and astonished him.

"My dear Victor," cried he, "what, for God's sake, is
the matter? Do not laugh in that manner. How ill you
are! What is the cause of all this?"

"Do not ask me," cried I, putting my hands before my
eyes, for I thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the
room; "{{he}} can tell.--Oh, save me! save me!" I imagined
that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously,
and fell down in a fit.

Poor Clerval! what must have been his feelings? A
meeting, which he anticipated with such joy, so strangely
turned to bitterness. But I was not the witness of his
grief; for I was lifeless, and did not recover my senses for
a long, long time.

This was the commencement of a nervous fever, which
confined me for several months. During all that time
Henry was my only nurse. I afterwards learned that,
knowing my father's advanced age, and unfitness for so
long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make
Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent
of my disorder. He knew that I could not have a
more kind and attentive nurse than himself; and, firm in
the hope he felt of my recovery, he did not doubt that,
instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest action that
he could towards them.
