
But I was in reality very ill; and surely nothing but the
unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could
have restored me to life. The form of the monster on
whom I had bestowed existence was for ever before my eyes,
and I raved incessantly concerning him. Doubtless my
words surprised Henry: he at first believed them to be the
wanderings of my disturbed imagination; but the pertinacity
with which I continually recurred to the same subject,
persuaded him that my disorder indeed owed its origin to
some uncommon and terrible event.

By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses, that
alarmed and grieved my friend, I recovered. I remember
the first time I became capable of observing outward objects
with any kind of pleasure, I perceived that the fallen leaves
had disappeared, and that the young buds were shooting
forth from the trees that shaded my window. It was a
divine spring; and the season contributed greatly to my
convalescence. I felt also sentiments of joy and affection
revive in my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short
time I became as cheerful as before I was attacked by the
fatal passion.

"Dearest Clerval," exclaimed I, "how kind, how very
good you are to me. This whole winter, instead of being
spent in study, as you promised yourself, has been consumed
in my sick room. How shall I ever repay you? I
feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I
have been the occasion; but you will forgive me."

"You will repay me entirely, if you do not discompose
yourself, but get well as fast as you can; and since you
appear in such good spirits, I may speak to you on one
subject, may I not?"

I trembled. One subject! what could it be? Could he
allude to an object on whom I dared not even think?

"Compose yourself," said Clerval, who observed my
change of colour, "I will not mention it, if it agitates you;
but your father and cousin would be very happy if they
received a letter from you in your own handwriting.
They hardly know how ill you have been, and are uneasy
at your long silence."

"Is that all, my dear Henry? How could you suppose
