but we cannot part with him, at least until his elder brother
return to us. My uncle is not pleased with the idea
of a military career in a distant country; but Ernest never
had your powers of application. He looks upon study as
an odious fetter;--his time is spent in the open air, climbing
the hills or rowing on the lake. I fear that he will become
an idler, unless we yield the point, and permit him to
enter on the profession which he has selected.

"Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children,
has taken place since you left us. The blue lake, and
snow-clad mountains, they never change;--and I think
our placid home, and our contented hearts are regulated by
the same immutable laws. My trifling occupations take up
my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions
by seeing none but happy, kind faces around me.
Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our
little household. Do you remember on what occasion Justine
Moritz entered our family? Probably you do not; I
will relate her history, therefore, in a few words. Madame
Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of
whom Justine was the third. This girl had always been
the favourite of her father; but, through a strange perversity,
her mother could not endure her, and, after the
death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed
this; and, when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed
on her mother to allow her to live at our house. The
republican institutions of our country have produced
simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in
the great monarchies that surround it. Hence there is less
distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants;
and the lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised,
their manners are more refined and moral. A servant in
Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France
and England. Justine, thus received in our family, learned
the duties of a servant; a condition which, in our fortunate
country, does not include the idea of ignorance,
and a sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.

"Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of
yours; and I recollect you once remarked, that if you were
in an ill-humour, one glance from Justine could dissipate
