it, for the same reason that Ariosto gives concerning the
beauty of Angelica--she looked so frank-hearted and happy.
My aunt conceived a great attachment for her, by which she
was induced to give her an education superior to that
which she had at first intended. This benefit was fully
repaid; Justine was the most grateful little creature in the
world: I do not mean that she made any professions; I
never heard one pass her lips; but you could see by her
eyes that she almost adored her protectress. Although her
disposition was gay, and in many respects inconsiderate,
yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my
aunt. She thought her the model of all excellence, and
endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so
that even now she often reminds me of her.

"When my dearest aunt died, every one was too much
occupied in their own grief to notice poor Justine, who had
attended her during her illness with the most anxious affection.
Poor Justine was very ill; but other trials were reserved
for her.

"One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her
mother, with the exception of her neglected daughter, was
left childless. The conscience of the woman was troubled;
she began to think that the deaths of her favourites was a
judgment from heaven to chastise her partiality. She was
a Roman catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed
the idea which she had conceived. Accordingly, a few
months after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was
called home by her repentant mother. Poor girl! she wept
when she quitted our house; she was much altered since
the death of my aunt; grief had given softness and a winning
mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable
for vivacity. Nor was her residence at her
mother's house of a nature to restore her gaiety. The
poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance. She
sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness, but
much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of
her brothers and sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw
Madame Moritz into a decline, which at first increased her
irritability, but she is now at peace for ever. She died on
the first approach of cold weather, at the beginning of this
