last winter. Justine has returned to us; and I assure you
I love her tenderly. She is very clever and gentle, and
extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and
her expressions continually remind me of my dear aunt.

“I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin,
of little darling William. I wish you could see him; he is
very tall of his age, with sweet laughing blue eyes, dark
eyelashes, and curling hair. When he smiles, two little
dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with health.
He has already had one or two little {{wives}}, but Louisa
Biron is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of
age.

“Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged
in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva.
The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory
visits on her approaching marriage with a
young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly
sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last
autumn. Your favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has
suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval
from Geneva. But he has already recovered his spirits,
and is reported to be on the point of marrying a very lively
pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier. She is a widow,
and much older than Manoir; but she is very much admired,
and a favourite with everybody.

“I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin;
but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude. Write,
dearest Victor,--one line--one word will be a blessing to
us. Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness, his
affection, and his many letters: we are sincerely grateful.
Adieu! my cousin; take care of yourself; and, I entreat you,
write!

 “Elizabeth Lavenza.

 “Geneva, March 18th, 17--.”

“Dear, dear Elizabeth!” I exclaimed, when I had read
her letter, “I will write instantly, and relieve them from
the anxiety they must feel.” I wrote, and this exertion
greatly fatigued me; but my convalescence had commenced,
and proceeded regularly. In another fortnight I was able
to leave my chamber.
