he now sleeps with his angel mother! Who that had seen him
bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over
his untimely loss! To die so miserably; to feel the murderer’s
grasp! How much more a murderer, that could
destroy such radiant innocence! Poor little fellow! one
only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep,
but he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at
an end for ever. A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows
no pain. He can no longer be a subject for pity; we must
reserve that for his miserable survivors.”

Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets;
the words impressed themselves on my mind, and I remembered
them afterwards in solitude. But now, as soon as
the horses arrived, I hurried into a cabriolet, and bade
farewell to my friend.

My journey was very melancholy. At first I wished
to hurry on, for I longed to console and sympathise with
my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I drew near
my native town, I slackened my progress. I could hardly
sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my
mind. I passed through scenes familiar to my youth, but
which I had not seen for nearly six years. How altered
every thing might be during that time! One sudden and
desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little
circumstances might have by degrees worked other alterations,
which, although they were done more tranquilly,
might not be the less decisive. Fear overcame me; I
dared not advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils
that made me tremble, although I was unable to define
them.

I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state
of mind. I contemplated the lake: the waters were placid;
all around was calm; and the snowy mountains, “the palaces
of nature,” were not changed. By degrees the calm and
heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey
towards Geneva.

The road ran by the side of the lake, which became
narrower as I approached my native town. I discovered
more distinctly the black sides of Jura, and the bright
summit of Mont Blanc. I wept like a child. “Dear
