mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome
your wanderer? Your summits are clear; the sky and
lake are blue and placid. Is this to prognosticate peace, or
to mock at my unhappiness?”

I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by
dwelling on these preliminary circumstances; but they were
days of comparative happiness, and I think of them with
pleasure. My country, my beloved country! who but a
native can tell the delight I took in again beholding thy
streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely lake!

Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame
me. Night also closed around; and when I could
hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still more gloomily.
The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil, and I
foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most
wretched of human beings. Alas! I prophesied truly, and
failed only in one single circumstance, that in all the misery
I imagined and dreaded, I did not conceive the hundredth
part of the anguish I was destined to endure.

It was completely dark when I arrived in the environs
of Geneva; the gates of the town were already shut; and
I was obliged to pass the night at Secheron, a village at the
distance of half a league from the city. The sky was
serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the
spot where my poor William had been murdered. As I
could not pass through the town, I was obliged to cross the
lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais. During this short
voyage I saw the lightnings playing on the summit of Mont
Blanc in the most beautiful figures. The storm appeared
to approach rapidly; and, on landing, I ascended a low
hill, that I might observe its progress. It advanced; the
heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain coming
slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased.

I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness
and storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst
with a terrific crash over my head. It was echoed from
Salêve, the Juras, and the Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of
lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the lake, making
it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant every
thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered
