he first received life; and was this his first crime? Alas!
I had turned loose into the world a depraved wretch, whose
delight was in carnage and misery; had he not murdered
my brother?

No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the
remainder of the night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the
open air. But I did not feel the inconvenience of the
weather; my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and
despair. I considered the being whom I had cast among
mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect
purposes of horror, such as the deed which he had now
done, nearly in the light of my own vampire, my own spirit
let loose from the grave, and forced to destroy all that was
dear to me.

Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town.
The gates were open, and I hastened to my father's house.
My first thought was to discover what I knew of the murderer,
and cause instant pursuit to be made. But I paused
when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A being
whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met
me at midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible
mountain. I remembered also the nervous fever with which
I had been seized just at the time that I dated my creation,
and which would give an air of delirium to a tale otherwise
so utterly improbable. I well knew that if any other
had communicated such a relation to me, I should have
looked upon it as the ravings of insanity. Besides, the
strange nature of the animal would elude all pursuit, even
if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to
commence it. And then of what use would be pursuit?
Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the overhanging
sides of Mont Salêve? These reflections determined
me, and I resolved to remain silent.

It was about five in the morning when I entered my
father's house. I told the servants not to disturb the family,
and went into the library to attend their usual hour of rising.

Six years had elapsed, passed as a dream but for one
indelible trace, and I stood in the same place where I had
last embraced my father before my departure for Ingolstadt.
Beloved and venerable parent! He still remained to me.
