I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood over the
mantel-piece. It was an historical subject, painted at my
father’s desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an
agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father.
Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was
an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the
sentiment of pity. Below this picture was a miniature of
William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it.
While I was thus engaged, Ernest entered: he had heard
me arrive, and hastened to welcome me. He expressed a
sorrowful delight to see me: “Welcome, my dearest Victor,”
said he. “Ah! I wish you had come three months
ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and
delighted. You come to us now to share a misery which
nothing can alleviate; yet your presence will, I hope, revive
our father, who seems sinking under his misfortune; and
your persuasions will induce poor Elizabeth to cease her
vain and tormenting self-accusations.--Poor William!
he was our darling and our pride!”

Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother’s eyes; a sense
of mortal agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only
imagined the wretchedness of my desolated home; the
reality came on me as a new, and a not less terrible, disaster.
I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more minutely concerning
my father, and her I named my cousin.

“She most of all,” said Ernest, “requires consolation;
she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother,
and that made her very wretched. But since the murderer
has been discovered--”

“The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that
be? who could attempt to pursue him? It is impossible;
one might as well try to overtake the winds, or confine a
mountain-stream with a straw. I saw him too; he was
free last night!”

“I do not know what you mean,” replied my brother,
in accents of wonder, “but to us the discovery we have
made completes our misery. No one would believe it at
first; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced, notwithstanding
all the evidence. Indeed, who would credit
that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all
