the family, could suddenly become capable of so frightful,
so appalling a crime?”

“Justine Moritz! Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?
But it is wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes
it, surely, Ernest?”

“No one did at first; but several circumstances came
out, that have almost forced conviction upon us; and her
own behaviour has been so confused, as to add to the evidence
of facts a weight that, I fear, leaves no hope for doubt.
But she will be tried to-day, and you will then hear all.”

He related that, the morning on which the murder of
poor William had been discovered, Justine had been taken
ill, and confined to her bed for several days. During this
interval, one of the servants, happening to examine the
apparel she had worn on the night of the murder, had discovered
in her pocket the picture of my mother, which had
been judged to be the temptation of the murderer. The
servant instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without
saying a word to any of the family, went to a magistrate;
and, upon their deposition, Justine was apprehended.
On being charged with the fact, the poor girl confirmed
the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion
of manner.

This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith;
and I replied earnestly, “You are all mistaken; I know
the murderer. Justine, poor, good Justine, is innocent.”

At that instant my father entered. I saw unhappiness
deeply impressed on his countenance, but he endeavoured
to welcome me cheerfully; and, after we had exchanged
our mournful greeting, would have introduced some other
topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed,
“Good God, papa! Victor says that he knows who was
the murderer of poor William.”

“We do also, unfortunately,” replied my father; “for
indeed I had rather have been for ever ignorant than have
discovered so much depravity and ingratitude in one I
valued so highly.”

“My dear father, you are mistaken; Justine is innocent.”

“If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty.
