murder had been committed at the house of an aunt at
Chêne, a village situated at about a league from Geneva.
On her return, at about nine o’clock, she met a man, who
asked her if she had seen any thing of the child who was
lost. She was alarmed by this account, and passed several
hours in looking for him, when the gates of Geneva were
shut, and she was forced to remain several hours of the
night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being unwilling to
call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known. Most
of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she
believed that she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed
her, and she awoke. It was dawn, and she quitted
her asylum, that she might again endeavour to find my
brother. If she had gone near the spot where his body
lay, it was without her knowledge. That she had been
bewildered when questioned by the market-woman was not
surprising, since she had passed a sleepless night, and the
fate of poor William was yet uncertain. Concerning the
picture she could give no account.

“I know,” continued the unhappy victim, “how
heavily and fatally this one circumstance weighs against
me, but I have no power of explaining it; and when I
have expressed my utter ignorance, I am only left to conjecture
concerning the probabilities by which it might have
been placed in my pocket. But here also I am checked.
I believe that I have no enemy on earth, and none surely
would have been so wicked as to destroy me wantonly. Did
the murderer place it there? I know of no opportunity
afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have
stolen the jewel, to part with it again so soon?

“I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I
see no room for hope. I beg permission to have a few witnesses
examined concerning my character; and if their
testimony shall not overweigh my supposed guilt, I must
be condemned, although I would pledge my salvation on
my innocence.”

Several witnesses were called, who had known her for
many years, and they spoke well of her; but fear, and
hatred of the crime of which they supposed her guilty,
rendered them timorous, and unwilling to come forward.
