Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent dispositions
and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the
accused, when, although violently agitated, she desired permission
to address the court.

“I am,” said she, “the cousin of the unhappy child
who was murdered, or rather his sister, for I was educated
by, and have lived with his parents ever since and even
long before, his birth. It may therefore be judged indecent
in me to come forward on this occasion; but when I see a
fellow-creature about to perish through the cowardice of
her pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that
I may say what I know of her character. I am well acquainted
with the accused. I have lived in the same house
with her, at one time for five, and at another for nearly
two years. During all that period she appeared to me the
most amiable and benevolent of human creatures. She
nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in her last illness,
with the greatest affection and care; and afterwards attended
her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner
that excited the admiration of all who knew her; after
which she again lived in my uncle’s house, where she was
beloved by all the family. She was warmly attached to the
child who is now dead, and acted towards him like a most
affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate
to say, that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced
against her, I believe and rely on her perfect innocence.
She had no temptation for such an action: as to the bauble
on which the chief proof rests, if she had earnestly desired
it, I should have willingly given it to her; so much do I
esteem and value her.”

A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth’s simple
and powerful appeal; but it was excited by her generous
interference, and not in favour of poor Justine, on whom
the public indignation was turned with renewed violence,
charging her with the blackest ingratitude. She herself
wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer. My own
agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial.
I believed in her innocence; I knew it. Could the dæmon,
who had (I did not for a minute doubt) murdered my
brother, also in his hellish sport have betrayed the innocent
