to death and ignominy? I could not sustain the horror of
my situation; and when I perceived that the popular voice,
and the countenances of the judges, had already condemned
my unhappy victim, I rushed out of the court in agony.
The tortures of the accused did not equal mine; she was
sustained by innocence, but the fangs of remorse tore my
bosom, and would not forego their hold.

I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness. In the
morning I went to the court; my lips and throat were
parched. I dared not ask the fatal question; but I was
known, and the officer guessed the cause of my visit. The
ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine
was condemned.

I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt. I had
before experienced sensations of horror; and I have endeavoured
to bestow upon them adequate expressions, but words
cannot convey an idea of the heart-sickening despair that
I then endured. The person to whom I addressed myself
added, that Justine had already confessed her guilt. "That
evidence," he observed, "was hardly required in so glaring
a case, but I am glad of it; and, indeed, none of our
judges like to condemn a criminal upon circumstantial
evidence, be it ever so decisive."

This was strange and unexpected intelligence; what
could it mean? Had my eyes deceived me? and was I
really as mad as the whole world would believe me to be, if
I disclosed the object of my suspicions? I hastened to return
home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result.

"My cousin," replied I, "it is decided as you may
have expected; all judges had rather that ten innocent
should suffer, than that one guilty should escape. But she
has confessed."

This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied
with firmness upon Justine's innocence. "Alas!" said she,
"how shall I ever again believe in human goodness?
Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as my sister, how
could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray?
her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and
yet she has committed a murder."

Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed
