a desire to see my cousin. My father wished her not to
go; but said, that he left it to her own judgment and feelings
to decide. “Yes,” said Elizabeth, “I will go, although
she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany
me: I cannot go alone.” The idea of this visit was torture
to me, yet I could not refuse.

We entered the gloomy prison-chamber, and beheld
Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end; her hands
were manacled, and her head rested on her knees. She
rose on seeing us enter; and when we were left alone with
her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping
bitterly. My cousin wept also.

“Oh, Justine!” said she, “why did you rob me of my
last consolation? I relied on your innocence; and although
I was then very wretched, I was not so miserable as I am
now.”

“And do you also believe that I am so very, very
wicked? Do you also join with my enemies to crush me,
to condemn me as a murderer?” Her voice was suffocated
with sobs.

“Rise, my poor girl,” said Elizabeth, “why do you
kneel, if you are innocent? I am not one of your enemies;
I believed you guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence,
until I heard that you had yourself declared your guilt.
That report, you say, is false; and be assured, dear Justine,
that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment,
but your own confession.”

“I did confess; but I confessed a lie. I confessed, that
I might obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies
heavier at my heart than all my other sins. The God of
heaven forgive me! Ever since I was condemned, my
confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced,
until I almost began to think that I was the monster that
he said I was. He threatened excommunication and hell
fire in my last moments, if I continued obdurate. Dear
lady, I had none to support me; all looked on me as a
wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition. What could I
do? In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only
am I truly miserable.”

She paused, weeping, and then continued – “I thought
