with horror, my sweet lady, that you should believe your
Justine, whom your blessed aunt had so highly honoured,
and whom you loved, was a creature capable of a crime
which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated.
Dear William! dearest blessed child! I soon shall see
you again in heaven, where we shall all be happy; and that
consoles me, going as I am to suffer ignominy and death."

"Oh, Justine! forgive me for having for one moment
distrusted you. Why did you confess? But do not
mourn, dear girl. Do not fear. I will proclaim, I will
prove your innocence. I will melt the stony hearts of
your enemies by my tears and prayers. You shall not die!--You,
my play-fellow, my companion, my sister, perish
on the scaffold! No! no! I never could survive so horrible
a misfortune."

Justine shook her head mournfully. "I do no not fear
to die," she said; "that pang is past. God raises my
weakness, and gives me courage to endure the worst. I
leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember me,
and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned
to the fate awaiting me. Learn from me, dear lady,
to submit in patience to the will of Heaven!"

During this conversation I had retired to a corner of
the prison-room, where I could conceal the horrid anguish
that possessed me. Despair! Who dared talk of that?
The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass the
awful boundary between life and death, felt not as I did,
such deep and bitter agony. I gnashed my teeth, and
ground them together, uttering a groan that came from my
inmost soul. Justine started. When she saw who it was,
she approached me, and said, "Dear sir, you are very
kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am
guilty?"

I could not answer. "No, Justine," said Elizabeth;
"he is more convinced of your innocence than I was; for
even when he heard that you had confessed, he did not
credit it."

"I truly thank him. In these last moments I feel the
sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with
kindness. How sweet is the affection of others to such a
