wretch as I am! It removes more than half my misfortune;
and I feel as if I could die in peace, now that my
innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your
cousin."

Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself.
She indeed gained the resignation she desired. But
I, the true murderer, felt the never-dying worm alive in
my bosom, which allowed of no hope or consolation. Elizabeth
also wept, and was unhappy; but her's also was the
misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over
the fair moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its
brightness. Anguish and despair had penetrated into the
core of my heart; I bore a hell within me, which nothing
could extinguish. We stayed several hours with Justine;
and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear
herself away. "I wish," cried she, "that I were to die
with you; I cannot live in this world of misery."

Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with
difficulty repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth,
and said, in a voice of half-suppressed emotion,
"Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth, my beloved and
only friend; may Heaven, in its bounty, bless and preserve
you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever
suffer! Live, and be happy, and make others so."

And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth's heart-rending
eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled
conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer.
My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them.
And when I received their cold answers, and heard the
harsh unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed
avowal died away on my lips. Thus I might proclaim
myself a madman, but not revoke the sentence passed upon
my wretched victim. She perished on the scaffold as a
murderess!

From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate
the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth.
This also was my doing! And my father's woe, and the
desolation of that late so smiling home--all was the work
of my thrice-accursed hands! Ye weep, unhappy ones;
but these are not your last tears! Again shall you raise
