waterfalls around, spoke of a power mighty as Omnipotence--and
I ceased to fear, or to bend before any being less almighty
than that which had created and ruled the elements, here
displayed in their most terrific guise. Still, as I ascended
higher, the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing
character. Ruined castles hanging on the precipices
of piny mountains; the impetuous Arve, and
cottages every here and there peeping forth from among
the trees, formed a scene of singular beauty. But it was
augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps,
whose white and shining pyramids and domes towered
above all, as belonging to another earth, the habitations of
another race of beings.

I passed the bridge of Pélissier, where the ravine, which
the river forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend
the mountain that overhangs it. Soon after I entered the
valley of Chamounix. This valley is more wonderful and
sublime, but not so beautiful and picturesque, as that of
Servox, through which I had just passed. The high and
snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries; but I saw
no more ruined castles and fertile fields. Immense glaciers
approached the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the
falling avalanche, and marked the smoke of its passage.
Mont Blanc, the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc,
raised itself from the surrounding {{aiguilles}}, and its tremendous
{{dôme}} overlooked the valley.

A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me
during this journey. Some turn in the road, some new
object suddenly perceived and recognised, reminded me of
days gone by, and were associated with the light-hearted
gaiety of boyhood. The very winds whispered in soothing
accents, and maternal nature bade me weep no more. Then
again the kindly influence ceased to act--I found myself
fettered again to grief, and indulging in all the misery of
reflection. Then I spurred on my animal, striving so to
forget the world, my fears, and, more than all, myself--or,
in a more desperate fashion, I alighted, and threw myself on
the grass, weighed down by horror and despair.

At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix. Exhaustion
succeeded to the extreme fatigue both of body and
