abhorred!) that it was the wretch whom I had created. I
trembled with rage and horror, resolving to wait his approach,
and then close with him in mortal combat. He
approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish, combined
with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness
rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes. But
I scarcely observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived
me of utterance, and I recovered only to overwhelm
him with words expressive of furious detestation and contempt.

"Devil," I exclaimed, "do you dare approach me? and
do not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on
your miserable head? Begone, vile insect! or rather, stay,
that I may trample you to dust! and, oh! that I could,
with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore those
victims whom you have so diabolically murdered!"

"I expected this reception," said the dæmon. "All
men hate the wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who
am miserable beyond all living things! Yet you, my
creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou
art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one
of us. You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus
with life? Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine
towards you and the rest of mankind. If you will comply
with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace;
but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be
satiated with the blood of your remaining friends."

"Abhorred monster! fiend that thou art! the tortures
of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes. Wretched
devil! you reproach me with your creation; come on, then,
that I may extinguish the spark which I so negligently
bestowed."

My rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled
by all the feelings which can arm one being against
the existence of another.

He easily eluded me, and said--

"Be calm! I entreat you to hear me, before you give
vent to your hatred on my devoted head. Have I not suffered
enough, that you seek to increase my misery? Life,
although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear
