to me, and I will defend it. Remember, thou hast made
me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to
thine; my joints more supple. But I will not be tempted
to set myself in opposition to thee. I am thy creature, and
I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king,
if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest
me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other,
and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even
thy clemency and affection, is most due. Remember, that
I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam; but I am
rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no
misdeed. Every where I see bliss, from which I alone
am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good;
misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall
again be virtuous.”

“Begone! I will not hear you. There can be no community
between you and me; we are enemies. Begone,
or let us try our strength in a fight, in which one must
fall.”

“How can I move thee? Will no entreaties cause thee
to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores
thy goodness and compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein:
I was benevolent; my soul glowed with love and humanity:
but am I not alone, miserably alone? You, my creator,
abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow-creatures,
who owe me nothing? They spurn and hate me.
The desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge.
I have wandered here many days; the caves of ice, which
I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the only one
which man does not grudge. These bleak skies I hail, for
they are kinder to me than your fellow-beings. If the
multitude of mankind knew of my existence, they would do
as you do, and arm themselves for my destruction. Shall
I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep no terms
with my enemies. I am miserable, and they shall share
my wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense
me, and deliver them from an evil which it only remains for
you to make so great, that not only you and your family,
but thousands of others, shall be swallowed up in the whirlwinds
of its rage. Let your compassion be moved, and do
