not disdain me. Listen to my tale: when you have heard
that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I
deserve. But hear me. The guilty are allowed, by human
laws, bloody as they are, to speak in their own defence
before they are condemned. Listen to me, Frankenstein.
You accuse me of murder; and yet you would, with a satisfied
conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise
the eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me:
listen to me; and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy
the work of your hands."

"Why do you call to my remembrance," I rejoined,
"circumstances, of which I shudder to reflect, that I have
been the miserable origin and author? Cursed be the day,
abhorred devil, in which you first saw light! Cursed
(although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you!
You have made me wretched beyond expression. You
have left me no power to consider whether I am just to
you, or not. Begone! relieve me from the sight of your
detested form."

"Thus I relieve thee, my creator," he said, and placed
his hated hands before my eyes, which I flung from me with
violence; "thus I take from thee a sight which you abhor.
Still thou canst listen to me, and grant me thy compassion.
By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this from
you. Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature
of this place is not fitting to your fine sensations;
come to the hut upon the mountain. The sun is yet high
in the heavens; before it descends to hide itself behind yon
snowy precipices, and illuminate another world, you will
have heard my story, and can decide. On you it rests,
whether I quit for ever the neighbourhood of man, and lead
a harmless life, or become the scourge of your fellow-creatures,
and the author of your own speedy ruin."

As he said this, he led the way across the ice: I followed.
My heart was full, and I did not answer him; but,
as I proceeded, I weighed the various arguments that he
had used, and determined at least to listen to his tale. I
was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed
my resolution. I had hitherto supposed him to be the
murderer of my brother, and I eagerly sought a
