ground. I slaked my thirst at the brook; and then lying
down, was overcome by sleep.

“It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half-frightened,
as it were instinctively, finding myself so desolate.
Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation
of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes; but these
were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night. I
was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all
sides, I sat down and wept.

“Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens, and gave
me a sensation of pleasure. I started up, and beheld a
radiant form rise from among the trees.[2] I gazed with a
kind of wonder. It moved slowly, but it enlightened my
path; and I again went out in search of berries. I was
still cold, when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak,
with which I covered myself, and sat down upon the
ground. No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was
confused. I felt light, and hunger, and thirst, and darkness;
innumerable sounds rung in my ears, and on all sides
various scents saluted me: the only object that I could
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on
that with pleasure.

“Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb
of night had greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish
my sensations from each other. I gradually saw plainly
the clear stream that supplied me with drink, and the trees
that shaded me with their foliage. I was delighted when
I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted
my ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged
animals who had often intercepted the light from my eyes.
I began also to observe, with greater accuracy, the forms
that surrounded me, and to perceive the boundaries of the
radiant roof of light which canopied me. Sometimes I tried
to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds, but was unable.
Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own
mode, but the uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke
from me frightened me into silence again.

“The moon had disappeared from the night, and again,
