attitude. The young girl was occupied in arranging the
cottage; but presently she took something out of a drawer,
which employed her hands, and she sat down beside the old
man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play, and to
produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch!
who had never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver
hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won
my reverence, while the gentle manners of the girl enticed
my love. He played a sweet mournful air, which I perceived
drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion,
of which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed
audibly; he then pronounced a few sounds, and the fair
creature, leaving her work, knelt at his feet. He raised
her, and smiled with such kindness and affection, that I
felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature: they
were a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never
before experienced, either from hunger or cold, warmth or
food; and I withdrew from the window, unable to bear
these emotions.

"Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on
his shoulders a load of wood. The girl met him at the
door, helped to relieve him of his burden, and, taking some
of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on the fire; then she
and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage, and he
showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese. She seemed
pleased, and went into the garden for some roots and plants,
which she placed in water, and then upon the fire. She
afterwards continued her work, whilst the young man went
into the garden, and appeared busily employed in digging
and pulling up roots. After he had been employed thus
about an hour, the young woman joined him, and they
entered the cottage together.

"The old man had, in the mean time, been pensive; but,
on the appearance of his companions, he assumed a more
cheerful air, and they sat down to eat. The meal was
quickly despatched. The young woman was again occupied
in arranging the cottage; the old man walked before the
cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of
the youth. Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast
