The young woman arranged the cottage, and prepared the
food; and the youth departed after the first meal.

“This day was passed in the same routine as that which
preceded it. The young man was constantly employed
out of doors, and the girl in various laborious occupations
within. The old man, whom I soon perceived to be blind,
employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation.
Nothing could exceed the love and respect
which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable
companion. They performed towards him every
little office of affection and duty with gentleness; and he
rewarded them by his benevolent smiles.

“They were not entirely happy. The young man and
his companion often went apart, and appeared to weep. I
saw no cause for their unhappiness; but I was deeply
affected by it. If such lovely creatures were miserable, it
was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being,
should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings
unhappy? They possessed a delightful house (for such it
was in my eyes) and every luxury; they had a fire to warm
them when chill, and delicious viands when hungry; they
were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more, they enjoyed
one another’s company and speech, interchanging
each day looks of affection and kindness. What did their
tears imply? Did they really express pain? I was at first
unable to solve these questions; but perpetual attention and
time explained to me many appearances which were at first
enigmatic.

“A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one
of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it
was poverty; and they suffered that evil in a very distressing
degree. Their nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables
of their garden, and the milk of one cow, which gave
very little during the winter, when its masters could scarcely
procure food to support it. They often, I believe, suffered
the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two
younger cottagers; for several times they placed food before
the old man, when they reserved none for themselves.

“This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been
accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store
