the morning, I attended the motions of the cottagers; and
when they were dispersed in various occupations, I slept:
the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends.
When they had retired to rest, if there was any moon, or
the night was star-light, I went into the woods, and collected
my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I returned,
as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the
snow, and performed those offices that I had seen done by
Felix. I afterwards found that these labours, performed
by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and once or
twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words
{{good}} {{spirit}}, {{wonderful}}; but I did not then understand the
signification of these terms.

"My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to
discover the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures;
I was inquisitive to know why Felix appeared so miserable,
and Agatha so sad. I thought (foolish wretch!) that it
might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving
people. When I slept, or was absent, the forms of the
venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent
Felix, flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior
beings, who would be the arbiters of my future destiny. I
formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting
myself to them, and their reception of me. I imagined
that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle demeanour
and conciliating words, I should first win their favour, and
afterwards their love.

"These thoughts exhilarated me, and led me to apply
with fresh ardour to the acquiring the art of language.
My organs were indeed harsh, but supple; and although
my voice was very unlike the soft music of their tones, yet
I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable
ease. It was as the ass and the lap-dog; yet surely the
gentle ass whose intentions were affectionate, although his
manners were rude, deserved better treatment than blows
and execration.

"The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring
greatly altered the aspect of the earth. Men, who before
this change seemed to have been hid in caves, dispersed
themselves, and were employed in various arts of
