more speedily master the language; and I may boast that
I improved more rapidly than the Arabian, who understood
very little, and conversed in broken accents, whilst I
comprehended and could imitate almost every word that was
spoken.

“While I improved in speech, I also learned the science
of letters, as it was taught to the stranger; and this opened
before me a wide field for wonder and delight.

“The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s
‘Ruins of Empires.’ I should not have understood the
purport of this book, had not Felix, in reading it, given
very minute explanations. He had chosen this work, he
said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation
of the eastern authors. Through this work I obtained a
cursory knowledge of history, and a view of the several
empires at present existing in the world; it gave me an
insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the
different nations of the earth. I heard of the slothful
Asiatics; of the stupendous genius and mental activity of
the Grecians; of the wars and wonderful virtue of the
early Romans--of their subsequent degenerating--of the
decline of that mighty empire; of chivalry, Christianity,
and kings. I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere,
and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its
original inhabitants.

“These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange
feelings. Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous,
and magnificent, yet so vicious and base? He appeared
at one time a mere scion of the evil principle, and at
another, as all that can be conceived of noble and godlike.
To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour
that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as
many on record have been, appeared the lowest degradation,
a condition more abject than that of the blind mole or
harmless worm. For a long time I could not conceive
how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even
why there were laws and governments; but when I heard
details of vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased, and I
turned away with disgust and loathing.

“Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new
