wonders to me. While I listened to the instructions which
Felix bestowed upon the Arabian, the strange system of
human society was explained to me. I heard of the division
of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty; of
rank, descent, and noble blood.

“The words induced me to turn towards myself. I
learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellow-creatures
were, high and unsullied descent united with
riches. A man might be respected with only one of these
advantages; but, without either, he was considered, except
in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave,
doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few!
And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely
ignorant; but I knew that I possessed no money,
no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides, endued
with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was
not even of the same nature as man. I was more agile than
they, and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes
of heat and cold with less injury to my frame; my
stature far exceeded theirs. When I looked around, I
saw and heard of none like me. Was I then a monster, a
blot upon the earth, from which all men fled, and whom all
men disowned?

“I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections
inflicted upon me: I tried to dispel them, but
sorrow only increased with knowledge. Oh, that I had for
ever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt
beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!

“Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to
the mind, when it has once seized on it, like a lichen on
the rock. I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and
feeling; but I learned that there was but one means to
overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death--a
state which I feared yet did not understand. I admired
virtue and good feelings, and loved the gentle manners and
amiable qualities of my cottagers; but I was shut out from
intercourse with them, except through means which I obtained
by stealth, when I was unseen and unknown, and
which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of
