lived for many years in affluence, respected by his superiors,
and beloved by his equals. His son was bred in the service
of his country; and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the
highest distinction. A few months before my arrival, they
had lived in a large and luxurious city, called Paris, surrounded
by friends, and possessed of every enjoyment which
virtue, refinement of intellect, or taste, accompanied by a
moderate fortune, could afford.

“The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin.
He was a Turkish merchant, and had inhabited Paris for
many years, when, for some reason which I could not
learn, he became obnoxious to the government. He was
seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived
from Constantinople to join him. He was tried, and condemned
to death. The injustice of his sentence was very
flagrant; all Paris was indignant; and it was judged that
his religion and wealth, rather than the crime alleged against
him, had been the cause of his condemnation.

“Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his
horror and indignation were uncontrollable, when he heard
the decision of the court. He made, at that moment, a
solemn vow to deliver him, and then looked around for the
means. After many fruitless attempts to gain admittance
to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an unguarded
part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of
the unfortunate Mahometan; who, loaded with chains,
waited in despair the execution of the barbarous sentence.
Felix visited the grate at night, and made known to the
prisoner his intentions in his favour. The Turk, amazed
and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer
by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected
his offers with contempt; yet when he saw the lovely
Safie, who was allowed to visit her father, and who, by her
gestures, expressed her lively gratitude, the youth could
not help owning to his own mind, that the captive possessed
a treasure which would fully reward his toil and
hazard.

“The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his
daughter had made on the heart of Felix, and endeavoured
to secure him more entirely in his interests by the promise
