before morning was distant many leagues from Paris. Felix
had procured passports in the name of his father, sister,
and himself. He had previously communicated his plan
to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house,
under the pretence of a journey, and concealed himself, with
his daughter, in an obscure part of Paris.

“Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons,
and across Mont Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had
decided to wait a favourable opportunity of passing into
some part of the Turkish dominions.

“Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment
of his departure, before which time the Turk renewed
his promise that she should be united to his deliverer;
and Felix remained with them in expectation of that event;
and in the mean time he enjoyed the society of the Arabian,
who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest affection.
They conversed with one another through the
means of an interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation
of looks; and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her
native country.

“The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place, and
encouraged the hopes of the youthful lovers, while in his
heart he had formed far other plans. He loathed the idea that
his daughter should be united to a Christian; but he feared
the resentment of Felix, if he should appear lukewarm; for
he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer, if
he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which
they inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he
should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no
longer necessary, and secretly to take his daughter with him
when he departed. His plans were facilitated by the news
which arrived from Paris.

“The government of France were greatly enraged at the
escape of their victim, and spared no pains to detect and
punish his deliverer. The plot of Felix was quickly discovered,
and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison.
The news reached Felix, and roused him from his dream
of pleasure. His blind and aged father, and his gentle
sister, lay in a noisome dungeon, while he enjoyed the free
air, and the society of her whom he loved. This idea was
