within me a desire to become an actor in the busy scene
where so many admirable qualities were called forth and
displayed. But, in giving an account of the progress of
my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
in the beginning of the month of August of the same
year.

“One night, during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring
wood, where I collected my own food, and brought
home firing for my protectors, I found on the ground a
leathern portmanteau, containing several articles of dress
and some books. I eagerly seized the prize, and returned
with it to my hovel. Fortunately the books were written
in the language, the elements of which I had acquired at
the cottage; they consisted of ‘Paradise Lost,’ a volume
of ‘Plutarch’s Lives,’ and the ‘Sorrows of Werter.’ The
possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I
now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these
histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary
occupations.

“I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books.
They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings,
that sometimes raised me to ecstacy, but more frequently
sunk me into the lowest dejection. In the ‘Sorrows
of Werter,’ besides the interest of its simple and affecting
story, so many opinions are canvassed, and so many lights
thrown upon what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects,
that I found in it a never-ending source of speculation
and astonishment. The gentle and domestic manners it
described, combined with lofty sentiments and feelings,
which had for their object something out of self, accorded
well with my experience among my protectors, and with
the wants which were for ever alive in my own bosom.
But I thought Werter himself a more divine being than I
had ever beheld or imagined; his character contained no
pretension, but it sunk deep. The disquisitions upon death
and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder. I did
not pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined
towards the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I
wept, without precisely understanding it.

“As I read, however, I applied much personally to my
