own feelings and condition. I found myself similar, yet
at the same time strangely unlike to the beings concerning
whom I read, and to whose conversation I was a listener.
I sympathised with, and partly understood them, but I was
unformed in mind; I was dependent on none, and related
to none. 'The path of my departure was free;' and there
was none to lament my annihilation. My person was
hideous, and my stature gigantic? What did this mean?
Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come? What
was my destination? These questions continually recurred,
but I was unable to solve them.

"The volume of 'Plutarch's Lives,' which I possessed,
contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient
republics. This book had a far different effect upon me
from the 'Sorrows of Werter.' I learned from Werter's
imaginations despondency and gloom: but Plutarch taught
me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched
sphere of my own reflections, to admire and love the heroes
of past ages. Many things I read surpassed my understanding
and experience. I had a very confused knowledge
of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and
boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with
towns, and large assemblages of men. The cottage of my
protectors had been the only school in which I had studied
human nature; but this book developed new and mightier
scenes of action. I read of men concerned in public affairs,
governing or massacring their species. I felt the greatest
ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice,
as far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative
as they were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain
alone. Induced by these feelings, I was of course led to
admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa, Solon, and Lycurgus,
in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The patriarchal
lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a
firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction
to humanity had been made by a young soldier, burning
for glory and slaughter, I should have been imbued with
different sensations.

"But 'Paradise Lost' excited different and far deeper
emotions. I read it, as I had read the other volumes which
