restored me to some degree of tranquillity; and when I
considered what had passed at the cottage, I could not
help believing that I had been too hasty in my conclusions.
I had certainly acted imprudently. It was apparent that
my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and
I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of
his children. I ought to have familiarised the old De Lacey
to me, and by degrees to have discovered myself to the rest
of his family, when they should have been prepared for my
approach. But I did not believe my errors to be irretrievable;
and, after much consideration, I resolved to
return to the cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations
win him to my party.

“These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I
sank into a profound sleep; but the fever of my blood did
not allow me to be visited by peaceful dreams. The horrible
scene of the preceding day was for ever acting before
my eyes; the females were flying, and the enraged Felix
tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted;
and, finding that it was already night, I crept forth from
my hiding-place, and went in search of food.

“When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps
towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage.
All there was at peace. I crept into my hovel, and remained
in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when
the family arose. That hour passed, the sun mounted high
in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I trembled
violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The
inside of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I
cannot describe the agony of this suspense.

“Presently two countrymen passed by; but, pausing
near the cottage, they entered into conversation, using violent
gesticulations; but I did not understand what they
said, as they spoke the language of the country, which differed
from that of my protectors. Soon after, however,
Felix approached with another man: I was surprised, as I
knew that he had not quitted the cottage that morning, and
waited anxiously to discover, from his discourse, the meaning
of these unusual appearances.

“‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him, ‘that
