you will be obliged to pay three months' rent, and to lose
the produce of your garden? I do not wish to take any
unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take
some days to consider of your determination.'

"'It is utterly useless,' replied Felix; 'we can never
again inhabit your cottage. The life of my father is in
the greatest danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance
that I have related. My wife and my sister will never
recover their horror. I entreat you not to reason with me
any more. Take possession of your tenement, and let me
fly from this place.'

"Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his
companion entered the cottage, in which they remained for
a few minutes, and then departed. I never saw any of the
family of De Lacey more.

"I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel
in a state of utter and stupid despair. My protectors had
departed, and had broken the only link that held me to the
world. For the first time the feelings of revenge and
hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control
them; but, allowing myself to be borne away by the stream,
I bent my mind towards injury and death. When I
thought of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the
gentle eyes of Agatha, and the exquisite beauty of the
Arabian, these thoughts vanished, and a gush of tears
somewhat soothed me. But again, when I reflected that
they had spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage
of anger; and, unable to injure any thing human, I turned
my fury towards inanimate objects. As night advanced, I
placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage; and,
after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the
garden, I waited with forced impatience until the moon
had sunk to commence my operations.

"As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the
woods, and quickly dispersed the clouds that had loitered
in the heavens: the blast tore along like a mighty avalanche,
and produced a kind of insanity in my spirits, that burst
all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the dry
branch of a tree, and danced with fury around the devoted
cottage, my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge
