of which the moon nearly touched. A part of its orb was
at length hid, and I waved my brand; it sunk, and, with a
loud scream, I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which
I had collected. The wind fanned the fire, and the cottage
was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it, and
licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.

“As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could
save any part of the habitation, I quitted the scene, and
sought for refuge in the woods.

“And now, with the world before me, whither should I
bend my steps? I resolved to fly far from the scene of my
misfortunes; but to me, hated and despised, every country
must be equally horrible. At length the thought of you
crossed my mind. I learned from your papers that you
were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply
with more fitness than to him who had given me life?
Among the lessons that Felix had bestowed upon Safie,
geography had not been omitted: I had learned from these
the relative situations of the different countries of the earth.
You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native
town; and towards this place I resolved to proceed.

“But how was I to direct myself? I knew that I must
travel in a south-westerly direction to reach my destination;
but the sun was my only guide. I did not know the names
of the towns that I was to pass through, nor could I ask
information from a single human being; but I did not
despair. From you only could I hope for succour, although
towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling,
heartless creator! you had endowed me with perceptions
and passions, and then cast me abroad an object
for the scorn and horror of mankind. But on you only
had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I determined
to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to
gain from any other being that wore the human form.

“My travels were long, and the sufferings I endured
intense. It was late in autumn when I quitted the district
where I had so long resided. I travelled only at night,
fearful of encountering the visage of a human being. Nature
decayed around me, and the sun became heatless; rain
and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen;
