the surface of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and
I found no shelter. Oh, earth! how often did I imprecate
curses on the cause of my being! The mildness of my
nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall and
bitterness. The nearer I approached to your habitation,
the more deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled
in my heart. Snow fell, and the waters were hardened; but
I rested not. A few incidents now and then directed me,
and I possessed a map of the country; but I often wandered
wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed
me no respite: no incident occurred from which my
rage and misery could not extract its food; but a circumstance
that happened when I arrived on the confines of
Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth, and
the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial
manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.

"I generally rested during the day, and travelled only
when I was secured by night from the view of man. One
morning, however, finding that my path lay through a deep
wood, I ventured to continue my journey after the sun had
risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring, cheered
even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess
of the air. I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that
had long appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised
by the novelty of these sensations, I allowed myself to be
borne away by them; and, forgetting my solitude and deformity,
dared to be happy. Soft tears again bedewed my
cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness
towards the blessed sun which bestowed such joy upon me.

"I continued to wind among the paths of the wood,
until I came to its boundary, which was skirted by a deep
and rapid river, into which many of the trees bent their
branches, now budding with the fresh spring. Here I
paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I
heard the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal myself
under the shade of a cypress. I was scarcely hid, when a
young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed,
laughing, as if she ran from some one in sport. She
continued her course along the precipitous sides of the river,
when suddenly her foot slipt, and she fell into the rapid
