in what manner I should apply to you. I was oppressed
by fatigue and hunger, and far too unhappy to enjoy the
gentle breezes of evening, or the prospect of the sun setting
behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.

"At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of
reflection, which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful
child, who came running into the recess I had chosen, with
all the sportiveness of infancy. Suddenly, as I gazed on
him, an idea seized me, that this little creature was unprejudiced,
and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a
horror of deformity. If, therefore, I could seize him, and
educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be
so desolate in this peopled earth.

"Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed,
and drew him towards me. As soon as he beheld my form,
he placed his hands before his eyes, and uttered a shrill
scream: I drew his hand forcibly from his face, and said,
'Child, what is the meaning of this? I do not intend to
hurt you; listen to me.'

"He struggled violently. 'Let me go,' he cried; 'monster!
ugly wretch! you wish to eat me, and tear me to pieces--You
are an ogre--Let me go, or I will tell my papa.'

"'Boy, you will never see your father again; you must
come with me.'

"'Hideous monster! let me go. My papa is a Syndic--he
is M. Frankenstein--he will punish you. You dare
not keep me.'

"'Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy--to
him towards whom I have sworn eternal revenge; you shall
be my first victim.'

"The child still struggled, and loaded me with epithets
which carried despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to
silence him, and in a moment he lay dead at my feet.

"I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation
and hellish triumph: clapping my hands, I exclaimed,
'I, too, can create desolation; my enemy is not
invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and a
thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.'

"As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something
glittering on his breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a
