stifle these sensations; I thought, that as I could not sympathise
with him, I had no right to withhold from him the
small portion of happiness which was yet in my power to
bestow.

"You swear," I said, "to be harmless; but have you
not already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably
make me distrust you? May not even this be a feint
that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope
for your revenge."

"How is this? I must not be trifled with: and I demand
an answer. If I have no ties and no affections,
hatred and vice must be my portion; the love of another
will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall become a
thing, of whose existence every one will be ignorant. My
vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor; and
my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion
with an equal. I shall feel the affections of a sensitive
being, and become linked to the chain of existence and
events, from which I am now excluded."

I paused some time to reflect on all he had related, and
the various arguments which he had employed. I thought
of the promise of virtues which he had displayed on the
opening of his existence, and the subsequent blight of all
kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors
had manifested towards him. His power and
threats were not omitted in my calculations: a creature who
could exist in the ice-caves of the glaciers, and hide himself
from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices,
was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope
with. After a long pause of reflection, I concluded that
the justice due both to him and my fellow-creatures demanded
of me that I should comply with his request.
Turning to him, therefore, I said--

"I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to
quit Europe for ever, and every other place in the neighbourhood
of man, as soon as I shall deliver into your
hands a female who will accompany you in your exile."

"I swear," he cried, "by the sun, and by the blue sky
of Heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart,
that if you grant my prayer, while they exist you shall
