never behold me again. Depart to your home, and commence
your labours: I shall watch their progress with
unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are
ready I shall appear.”

Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps,
of any change in my sentiments. I saw him descend the
mountain with greater speed than the flight of an eagle,
and quickly lost among the undulations of the sea of ice.

His tale had occupied the whole day; and the sun was
upon the verge of the horizon when he departed. I knew
that I ought to hasten my descent towards the valley, as I
should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my heart was
heavy, and my steps slow. The labour of winding among the
little paths of the mountains, and fixing my feet firmly as
I advanced, perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions
which the occurrences of the day had produced.
Night was far advanced, when I came to the half-way
resting-place, and seated myself beside the fountain. The
stars shone at intervals, as the clouds passed from over
them; the dark pines rose before me, and every here and
there a broken tree lay on the ground: it was a scene of
wonderful solemnity, and stirred strange thoughts within
me. I wept bitterly; and clasping my hands in agony, I
exclaimed, “Oh! stars and clouds, and winds, ye are all
about to mock me: if ye really pity me, crush sensation
and memory; let me become as nought; but if not,
depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.”

These were wild and miserable thoughts; but I cannot
describe to you how the eternal twinkling of the stars
weighed upon me, and how I listened to every blast of
wind, as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its way to consume
me.

Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix;
I took no rest, but returned immediately to
Geneva. Even in my own heart I could give no expression
to my sensations – they weighed on me with a mountain’s
weight, and their excess destroyed my agony beneath
them. Thus I returned home, and entering the house,
presented myself to the family. My haggard and wild
appearance awoke intense alarm; but I answered no
