recent events have drawn us from that every-day tranquillity
befitting my years and infirmities. You are younger;
yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent
fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with
any future plans of honour and utility that you may have
formed. Do not suppose, however, that I wish to dictate
happiness to you, or that a delay on your part would cause
me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my words with candour,
and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and
sincerity."

I listened to my father in silence, and remained for some
time incapable of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly
in my mind a multitude of thoughts, and endeavoured to
arrive at some conclusion. Alas! to me the idea of an
immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror
and dismay. I was bound by a solemn promise, which
I had not yet fulfilled, and dared not break; or, if I did,
what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my
devoted family! Could I enter into a festival with this
deadly weight yet hanging round my neck, and bowing me
to the ground. I must perform my engagement, and
let the monster depart with his mate, before I allowed myself
to enjoy the delight of an union from which I expected
peace.

I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of
either journeying to England, or entering into a long correspondence
with those philosophers of that country, whose
knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable use to
me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining
the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory:
besides, I had an insurmountable aversion to the
idea of engaging myself in my loathsome task in my
father's house, while in habits of familiar intercourse with
those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful accidents
might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to
thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also
that I should often lose all self-command, all capacity of
hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me
during the progress of my unearthly occupation. I must
absent myself from all I loved while thus employed. Once
