and more happy when he beheld it rise, and recommence a
new day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the
landscape, and the appearances of the sky. “This is what
it is to live,” he cried, “now I enjoy existence! But you,
my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and
sorrowful!” In truth, I was occupied by gloomy thoughts,
and neither saw the descent of the evening star, nor the
golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine.--And you, my
friend, would be far more amused with the journal of
Clerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling
and delight, than in listening to my reflections. I, a miserable
wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue
to enjoyment.

We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from
Strasburgh to Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping
for London. During this voyage, we passed many willowy
islands, and saw several beautiful towns. We stayed a day
at Manheim, and, on the fifth from our departure from
Strasburgh, arrived at Mayence. The course of the Rhine
below Mayence becomes much more picturesque. The river
descends rapidly, and winds between hills, not high, but
steep, and of beautiful forms. We saw many ruined castles
standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by black
woods, high and inaccessible. This part of the Rhine,
indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape. In one
spot you view rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous
precipices, with the dark Rhine rushing beneath;
and, on the sudden turn of a promontory, flourishing vineyards,
with green sloping banks, and a meandering river,
and populous towns occupy the scene.

We travelled at the time of the vintage, and heard the
song of the labourers, as we glided down the stream. Even
I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated
by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I lay at the bottom
of the boat, and, as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky,
I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been
a stranger. And if these were my sensations, who can
describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had been transported
to Fairy-land, and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted
by man. “I have seen,” he said, “the most beautiful
