pleasures natural to one, who was entering on a new scene
of life, undisturbed by any care or bitter recollection. I
often refused to accompany him, alleging another engagement,
that I might remain alone. I now also began to
collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and
this was to me like the torture of single drops of water
continually falling on the head. Every thought that was
devoted to it was an extreme anguish, and every word that
I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips to quiver, and my
heart to palpitate.

After passing some months in London, we received a
letter from a person in Scotland, who had formerly been
our visiter at Geneva. He mentioned the beauties of his
native country, and asked us if those were not sufficient
allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north
as Perth, where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to
accept this invitation; and I, although I abhorred society,
wished to view again mountains and streams, and all the
wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen
dwelling-places.

We had arrived in England at the beginning of October,
and it was now February. We accordingly determined to
commence our journey towards the north at the expiration
of another month. In this expedition we did not intend
to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor,
Oxford, Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to
arrive at the completion of this tour about the end of July.
I packed up my chemical instruments, and the materials I
had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some obscure
nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.

We quitted London on the 27th of March, and remained
a few days at Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest.
This was a new scene to us mountaineers; the majestic
oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of stately deer,
were all novelties to us.

From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered
this city, our minds were filled with the remembrance of
the events that had been transacted there more than a
century and a half before. It was here that Charles I. had
collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to
