him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join
the standard of parliament and liberty. The memory of
that unfortunate king, and his companions, the amiable
Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a
peculiar interest to every part of the city, which they might
be supposed to have inhabited. The spirit of elder days
found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps.
If these feelings had not found an imaginary gratification,
the appearance of the city had yet in itself sufficient
beauty to obtain our admiration. The colleges are ancient
and picturesque; the streets are almost magnificent; and
the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through meadows of
exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of
waters, which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and
spires, and domes, embosomed among aged trees.

I enjoyed this scene; and yet my enjoyment was embittered
both by the memory of the past, and the anticipation
of the future. I was formed for peaceful happiness. During
my youthful days discontent never visited my mind; and
if I was ever overcome by {{ennui}}, the sight of what is
beautiful in nature, or the study of what is excellent and
sublime in the productions of man, could always interest
my heart, and communicate elasticity to my spirits. But
I am a blasted tree; the bolt has entered my soul; and I
felt then that I should survive to exhibit, what I shall soon
cease to be--a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity,
pitiable to others, and intolerable to myself.

We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling
among its environs, and endeavouring to identify every spot
which might relate to the most animating epoch of English
history. Our little voyages of discovery were often prolonged
by the successive objects that presented themselves.
We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden, and the
field on which that patriot fell. For a moment my soul
was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears, to contemplate
the divine ideas of liberty and self-sacrifice, of
which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers.
For an instant I dared to shake off my chains,
and look around me with a free and lofty spirit; but the
