wished to rouse one of the peasants who dwelt in a cottage
not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation
of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you
in vain endeavour to fly from an impending danger, and
was rooted to the spot.

Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage;
the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded
appeared. Shutting the door, he approached me, and said,
in a smothered voice--

“You have destroyed the work which you began; what
is it that you intend? Do you dare to break your promise?
I have endured toil and misery: I left Switzerland with
you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among its willow
islands, and over the summits of its hills. I have dwelt
many months in the heaths of England, and among the
deserts of Scotland. I have endured incalculable fatigue,
and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my hopes?”

“Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create
another like yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”

“Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved
yourself unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I
have power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make
you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you.
You are my creator, but I am your master;--obey!”

“The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period
of your power is arrived. Your threats cannot move me
to do an act of wickedness; but they confirm me in a determination
of not creating you a companion in vice. Shall
I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a dæmon, whose
delight is in death and wretchedness? Begone! I am firm,
and your words will only exasperate my rage.”

The monster saw my determination in my face, and
gnashed his teeth in the impotence of anger. “Shall each
man,” cried he, “find a wife for his bosom, and each beast
have his mate, and I be alone? I had feelings of affection,
and they were requited by detestation and scorn. Man!
you may hate; but beware! your hours will pass in dread
and misery, and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish
from you your happiness for ever. Are you to be happy,
while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness? You
