can blast my other passions; but revenge remains--revenge,
henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die;
but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun
that gazes on your misery. Beware; for I am fearless,
and therefore powerful. I will watch with the wiliness of
a snake, that I may sting with its venom. Man, you shall
repent of the injuries you inflict.”

“Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these
sounds of malice. I have declared my resolution to you,
and I am no coward to bend beneath words. Leave me;
I am inexorable.”

“It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you
on your wedding-night.”

I started forward, and exclaimed, “Villain! before you
sign my death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe.”

I would have seized him; but he eluded me, and
quitted the house with precipitation. In a few moments
I saw him in his boat, which shot across the waters with
an arrowy swiftness, and was soon lost amidst the waves.

All was again silent; but his words rung in my ears. I
burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace, and
precipitate him into the ocean. I walked up and down my
room hastily and perturbed, while my imagination conjured
up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had
I not followed him, and closed with him in mortal strife?
But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his
course towards the main land. I shuddered to think who
might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate revenge.
And then I thought again of his words--“{{I will be with
you on your wedding-night.}}” That then was the period
fixed for the fulfilment of my destiny. In that hour I
should die, and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice.
The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I thought
of my beloved Elizabeth,--of her tears and endless sorrow,
when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched
from her,--tears, the first I had shed for many months,
streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall before
my enemy without a bitter struggle.

The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean;
my feelings became calmer, if it may be called calmness
