when the violence of rage sinks into the depths of despair.
I left the house, the horrid scene of the last night’s contention,
and walked on the beach of the sea, which I almost
regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my
fellow-creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the
fact stole across me. I desired that I might pass my life
on that barren rock, wearily, it is true, but uninterrupted
by any sudden shock of misery. If I returned, it was to
be sacrificed, or to see those whom I most loved die under
the grasp of a dæmon whom I had myself created.

I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated
from all it loved, and miserable in the separation. When
it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on
the grass, and was overpowered by a deep sleep. I had
been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves
were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and
misery. The sleep into which I now sunk refreshed me;
and when I awoke, I again felt as if I belonged to a race
of human beings like myself, and I began to reflect upon
what had passed with greater composure; yet still the words
of the fiend rung in my ears like a death-knell, they appeared
like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.

The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore,
satisfying my appetite, which had become ravenous, with
an oaten cake, when I saw a fishing-boat land close to me,
and one of the men brought me a packet; it contained letters
from Geneva, and one from Clerval, entreating me to
join him. He said that he was wearing away his time
fruitlessly where he was; that letters from the friends
he had formed in London desired his return to complete
the negotiation they had entered into for his Indian enterprise.
He could not any longer delay his departure; but
as his journey to London might be followed, even sooner
than he now conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated
me to bestow as much of my society on him as I could
spare. He besought me, therefore, to leave my solitary
isle, and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed
southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me
to life, and I determined to quit my island at the expiration
of two days.
