one time the moon, which had before been clear, was suddenly
overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage
of the moment of darkness, and cast my basket into the
sea: I listened to the gurgling sound as it sunk, and then
sailed away from the spot. The sky became clouded; but
the air was pure, although chilled by the north-east breeze
that was then rising. But it refreshed me, and filled me
with such agreeable sensations, that I resolved to prolong
my stay on the water; and, fixing the rudder in a direct
position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds
hid the moon, every thing was obscure, and I heard only
the sound of the boat, as its keel cut through the waves;
the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I slept soundly.

I do not know how long I remained in this situation,
but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted
considerably. The wind was high, and the waves continually
threatened the safety of my little skiff. I found
that the wind was north-east, and must have driven me far
from the coast from which I had embarked. I endeavoured
to change my course, but quickly found that, if I again
made the attempt, the boat would be instantly filled with
water. Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before
the wind. I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror.
I had no compass with me, and was so slenderly acquainted
with the geography of this part of the world, that the sun
was of little benefit to me. I might be driven into the
wide Atlantic, and feel all the tortures of starvation, or be
swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and
buffeted around me. I had already been out many hours,
and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my
other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were
covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only to be
replaced by others: I looked upon the sea, it was to be my
grave. "Fiend," I exclaimed, "your task is already fulfilled!"
I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and of Clerval;
all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy
his sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged
me into a reverie, so despairing and frightful, that even
now, when the scene is on the point of closing before me
for ever, I shudder to reflect on it.
