the island I had inhabited about the time that the body had
been found, I was perfectly tranquil as to the consequences
of the affair.

I entered the room where the corpse lay, and was led up
to the coffin. How can I describe my sensations on beholding
it? I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I
reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and
agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate
and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory, when
I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before
me. I gasped for breath; and, throwing myself on the
body, I exclaimed, “Have my murderous machinations deprived
you also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have
already destroyed; other victims await their destiny: but
you, Clerval, my friend, my benefactor----”

The human frame could no longer support the agonies
that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong
convulsions.

A fever succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the
point of death: my ravings, as I afterwards heard, were
frightful; I called myself the murderer of William, of
Justine, and of Clerval. Sometimes I entreated my attendants
to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by
whom I was tormented; and at others, I felt the fingers of
the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud
with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke my native
language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures
and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other
witnesses.

Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever
was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?
Death snatches away many blooming children, the only
hopes of their doating parents: how many brides and
youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health
and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay
of the tomb! Of what materials was I made, that I could
thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of the
wheel, continually renewed the torture?

But I was doomed to live; and, in two months, found
myself as awaking from a dream, in a prison, stretched
