on a wretched bed, surrounded by gaolers, turnkeys, bolts,
and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon. It was
morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding:
I had forgotten the particulars of what had happened,
and only felt as if some great misfortune had suddenly
overwhelmed me; but when I looked around, and saw the
barred windows, and the squalidness of the room in which
I was, all flashed across my memory, and I groaned bitterly.

This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in
a chair beside me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one
of the turnkeys, and her countenance expressed all those
bad qualities which often characterise that class. The lines
of her face were hard and rude, like that of persons accustomed
to see without sympathising in sights of misery.
Her tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed
me in English, and the voice struck me as one that I had
heard during my sufferings:--

"Are you better now, sir?" said she.

I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, "I
believe I am; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not
dream, I am sorry that I am still alive to feel this misery
and horror."

"For that matter," replied the old woman, "if you
mean about the gentleman you murdered, I believe that it
were better for you if you were dead, for I fancy it will go
hard with you! However, that's none of my business; I am
sent to nurse you, and get you well; I do my duty with
a safe conscience; it were well if every body did the
same."

I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter
so unfeeling a speech to a person just saved, on the very
edge of death; but I felt languid, and unable to reflect on
all that had passed. The whole series of my life appeared
to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were
all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the
force of reality.

As the images that floated before me became more distinct,
I grew feverish; a darkness pressed around me: no
one was near me who soothed me with the gentle voice of
