love; no dear hand supported me. The physician came
and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared
them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first,
and the expression of brutality was strongly marked in the
visage of the second. Who could be interested in the
fate of a murderer, but the hangman who would gain his
fee?

These were my first reflections; but I soon learned that
Mr. Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness. He had
caused the best room in the prison to be prepared for me
(wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who had
provided a physician and a nurse. It is true, he seldom
came to see me; for, although he ardently desired to relieve
the sufferings of every human creature, he did not wish to
be present at the agonies and miserable ravings of a murderer.
He came, therefore, sometimes, to see that I was
not neglected; but his visits were short, and with long
intervals.

One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated
in a chair, my eyes half open, and my cheeks livid like
those in death. I was overcome by gloom and misery, and
often reflected I had better seek death than desire to remain
in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness. At
one time I considered whether I should not declare myself
guilty, and suffer the penalty of the law, less innocent than
poor Justine had been. Such were my thoughts, when the
door of my apartment was opened, and Mr. Kirwin entered.
His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he
drew a chair close to mine, and addressed me in French--

"I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I
do any thing to make you more comfortable?"

"I thank you; but all that you mention is nothing to
me: on the whole earth there is no comfort which I am
capable of receiving."

"I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of
little relief to one borne down as you are by so strange a
misfortune. But you will, I hope, soon quit this melancholy
abode; for, doubtless, evidence can easily be brought
to free you from the criminal charge."

"That is my least concern: I am, by a course of strange
