precaution necessary that could ensure tranquillity. Mr. Kirwin
came in, and insisted that my strength should not be
exhausted by too much exertion. But the appearance of
my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I gradually
recovered my health.

As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy
and black melancholy, that nothing could dissipate. The
image of Clerval was for ever before me, ghastly and murdered.
More than once the agitation into which these reflections
threw me made my friends dread a dangerous
relapse. Alas! why did they preserve so miserable and
detested a life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny,
which is now drawing to a close. Soon, oh! very
soon, will death extinguish these throbbings, and relieve
me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears me to
the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall
also sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant,
although the wish was ever present to my thoughts;
and I often sat for hours motionless and speechless, wishing
for some mighty revolution that might bury me and my
destroyer in its ruins.

The season of the assizes approached. I had already
been three months in prison; and although I was still weak,
and in continual danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel
nearly a hundred miles to the county-town, where the court
was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of
collecting witnesses, and arranging my defence. I was
spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as
the case was not brought before the court that decides on
life and death. The grand jury rejected the bill, on its
being proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour
the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight after my
removal I was liberated from prison.

My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the
vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to
breathe the fresh atmosphere, and permitted to return to my
native country. I did not participate in these feelings; for
to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful.
The cup of life was poisoned for ever; and although the sun
shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I saw
