around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated
by no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared
upon me. Sometimes they were the expressive eyes of
Henry, languishing in death, the dark orbs nearly covered
by the lids, and the long black lashes that fringed them;
sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster,
as I first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt.

My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection.
He talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit – of Elizabeth
and Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans
from me. Sometimes, indeed, I felt a wish for happiness;
and thought, with melancholy delight, of my beloved
cousin; or longed, with a devouring {{maladie du pays}},
to see once more the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had
been so dear to me in early childhood: but my general
state of feeling was a torpor, in which a prison was as
welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of
anguish and despair. At these moments I often endeavoured
to put an end to the existence I loathed; and it
required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me
from committing some dreadful act of violence.

Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which
finally triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary
that I should return without delay to Geneva, there
to watch over the lives of those I so fondly loved; and to
lie in wait for the murderer, that if any chance led me to
the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to blast me
by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to
the existence of the monstrous Image which I had endued
with the mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My
father still desired to delay our departure, fearful that I
could not sustain the fatigues of a journey: for I was a
shattered wreck, – the shadow of a human being. My
strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton; and fever night
and day preyed upon my wasted frame.

Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude
and impatience, my father thought it best to yield. We
took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace,
and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.
