It was midnight. I lay on the deck, looking at the stars,
and listening to the dashing of the waves. I hailed the
darkness that shut Ireland from my sight; and my pulse
beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should
soon see Geneva. The past appeared to me in the light of
a frightful dream; yet the vessel in which I was, the wind
that blew me from the detested shore of Ireland, and the
sea which surrounded me, told me too forcibly that I was
deceived by no vision, and that Clerval, my friend and
dearest companion, had fallen a victim to me and the
monster of my creation. I repassed, in my memory, my
whole life; my quiet happiness while residing with my
family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure
for Ingolstadt. I remembered, shuddering, the mad
enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous
enemy, and I called to mind the night in which he first
lived. I was unable to pursue the train of thought; a
thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept bitterly.

Ever since my recovery from the fever, I had been in
the custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum;
for it was by means of this drug only that I was
enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of
life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes,
I now swallowed double my usual quantity, and soon
slept profoundly. But sleep did not afford me respite from
thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand
objects that scared me. Towards morning I was possessed
by a kind of night-mare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my
neck, and could not free myself from it; groans and cries
rung in my ears. My father, who was watching over
me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing
waves were around: the cloudy sky above; the fiend was
not here: a sense of security, a feeling that a truce was
established between the present hour and the irresistible,
disastrous future, imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness,
of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly
susceptible.
