and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I
had created. I had a persuasion that I should be supposed
mad; and this in itself would for ever have chained my
tongue. But, besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a
secret which would fill my hearer with consternation, and
make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast.
I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy, and
was silent when I would have given the world to have confided
the fatal secret. Yet still words like those I have
recorded, would burst uncontrollably from me. I could
offer no explanation of them; but their truth in part relieved
the burden of my mysterious woe.

Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of
unbounded wonder, “My dearest Victor, what infatuation
is this? My dear son, I entreat you never to make
such an assertion again.”

“I am not mad,” I cried energetically; “the sun and
the heavens, who have viewed my operations, can bear witness
of my truth. I am the assassin of those most innocent
victims; they died by my machinations. A thousand times
would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have
saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I
could not sacrifice the whole human race.”

The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that
my ideas were deranged, and he instantly changed the
subject of our conversation, and endeavoured to alter the
course of my thoughts. He wished as much as possible to
obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in
Ireland, and never alluded to them, or suffered me to speak
of my misfortunes.

As time passed away I became more calm: misery had
her dwelling in my heart, but I no longer talked in the
same incoherent manner of my own crimes; sufficient for
me was the consciousness of them. By the utmost self-violence,
I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness,
which sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world;
and my manners were calmer and more composed than they
had ever been since my journey to the sea of ice.

A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland,
I received the following letter from Elizabeth:–
