solitude, from the society of every creature, I could not
help supposing that you might regret our connection, and
believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of
you parents, although they opposed themselves to your
inclinations. But this is false reasoning. I confess to you,
my friend, that I love you, and that in my airy dreams of
futurity you have been my constant friend and companion.
But it is your happiness I desire as well as my own, when
I declare to you, that our marriage would render me eternally
miserable, unless it were the dictate of your own free choice.
Even now I weep to think, that, borne down as you are by
the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word {{honour}},
all hope of that love and happiness which would alone restore
you to yourself. I, who have so disinterested an affection
for you, may increase your miseries tenfold, by being an
obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured that your
cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to
be made miserable by this supposition. Be happy, my
friend; and if you obey me in this one request, remain
satisfied that nothing on earth will have the power to interrupt
my tranquillity.

"Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer to-morrow,
or the next day, or even until you come, if it
will give you pain. My uncle will send me news of your
health; and if I see but one smile on your lips when we
meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I
shall need no other happiness.

 "Elizabeth Lavenza.

 "Geneva, May 18th, 17--."

This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten,
the threat of the fiend--"{{I will be with you on your
wedding night!}}" Such was my sentence, and on that night
would the dæmon employ every art to destroy me, and tear
me from the glimpse of happiness which promised partly to
console my sufferings. On that night he had determined to
consummate his crimes by my death. Well, be it so; a
deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if
he were victorious I should be at peace, and his power over
me be at an end. If he were vanquished, I should be a
free man. Alas! what freedom? such as the peasant enjoys
