when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his
cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift,
homeless, penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be
my liberty, except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a
treasure; alas! balanced by those horrors of remorse and
guilt, which would pursue me until death.

Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and re-read her
letter, and some softened feelings stole into my heart, and
dared to whisper paradisiacal dreams of love and joy; but
the apple was already eaten, and the angel’s arm bared to
drive me from all hope. Yet I would die to make her
happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable;
yet, again, I considered whether my marriage
would hasten my fate. My destruction might indeed arrive
a few months sooner; but if my torturer should suspect
that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would
surely find other, and perhaps more dreadful means of
revenge. He had vowed {{to be with me on my wedding-night}},
yet he did not consider that threat as binding him to peace
in the mean time; for, as if to show me that he was not yet
satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately
after the enunciation of his threats. I resolved, therefore, that
if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce either
to hers or my father’s happiness, my adversary’s designs
against my life should not retard it a single hour.

In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter
was calm and affectionate. “I fear, my beloved girl,” I
said, “little happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that
I may one day enjoy is centred in you. Chase away your
idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life, and my
endeavours for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth,
a dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your
frame with horror, and then, far from being surprised at my
misery, you will only wonder that I survive what I have
endured. I will confide this tale of misery and terror to
you the day after our marriage shall take place; for, my
sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us.
But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to
it. This I most earnestly entreat, and I know you will
comply.”
