
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter, we
returned to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with
warm affection; yet tears were in her eyes, as she beheld
my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a change
in her also. She was thinner, and had lost much of that
heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me; but her
gentleness, and soft looks of compassion, made her a more fit
companion for one blasted and miserable as I was.

The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure.
Memory brought madness with it; and when I thought of
what had passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes
I was furious, and burnt with rage; sometimes low and
despondent. I neither spoke, nor looked at any one, but
sat motionless, bewildered by the multitude of miseries that
overcame me.

Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these
fits; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by
passion, and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in
torpor. She wept with me, and for me. When reason
returned, she would remonstrate, and endeavour to inspire
me with resignation. Ah! it is well for the unfortunate to
be resigned, but for the guilty there is no peace. The
agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise
sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief.

Soon after my arrival, my father spoke of my immediate
marriage with Elizabeth. I remained silent.

“Have you, then, some other attachment?”

“None on earth. I love Elizabeth, and look forward to
our union with delight. Let the day therefore be fixed;
and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the
happiness of my cousin.”

“My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes
have befallen us; but let us only cling closer to what remains,
and transfer our love for those whom we have lost, to
those who yet live. Our circle will be small, but bound
close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune. And
when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear
objects of care will be born to replace those of whom we
have been so cruelly deprived.”

Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the
