to Villa Lavenza, and spend our first days of happiness beside
the beautiful lake near which it stood.

In the mean time I took every precaution to defend my
person, in case the fiend should openly attack me. I carried
pistols and a dagger constantly about me, and was ever
on the watch to prevent artifice; and by these means
gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the
period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion,
not to be regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while
the happiness I hoped for in my marriage wore a greater
appearance of certainty, as the day fixed for its solemnisation
drew nearer, and I heard it continually spoken of as
an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent.

Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed
greatly to calm her mind. But on the day that
was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny, she was melancholy,
and a presentiment of evil pervaded her; and perhaps
also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had
promised to reveal to her on the following day. My father
was in the mean time overjoyed, and, in the bustle of preparation,
only recognised in the melancholy of his niece the
diffidence of a bride.

After the ceremony was performed, a large party assembled
at my father's; but it was agreed that Elizabeth and
I should commence our journey by water, sleeping that
night at Evian, and continuing our voyage on the following
day. The day was fair, the wind favourable, all smiled on
our nuptial embarkation.

Those were the last moments of my life during which I
enjoyed the feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along:
the sun was hot, but we were sheltered from its rays by a
kind of canopy, while we enjoyed the beauty of the scene,
sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw Mont
Salêve, the pleasant banks of Montalègre, and at a distance,
surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc, and the assemblage
of snowy mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate
her; sometimes coasting the opposite banks, we saw
the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the ambition that
would quit its native country, and an almost insurmountable
barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it.
