that brought misery on his grey hairs, and doomed him to
waste in wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors
that were accumulated around him; the springs of
existence suddenly gave way: he was unable to rise from
his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms.

What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation,
and chains and darkness were the only objects that
pressed upon me. Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I
wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the
friends of my youth; but I awoke, and found myself in a
dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a
clear conception of my miseries and situation, and was then
released from my prison. For they had called me mad; and
during many months, as I understood, a solitary cell had
been my habitation.

Liberty, however, had been an useless gift to me, had I
not, as I awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to
revenge. As the memory of past misfortunes pressed upon
me, I began to reflect on their cause – the monster whom
I had created, the miserable dæmon whom I had sent abroad
into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a
maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired
and ardently prayed that I might have him within my
grasp to wreak a great and signal revenge on his cursed
head.

Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I
began to reflect on the best means of securing him; and
for this purpose, about a month after my release, I repaired
to a criminal judge in the town, and told him that
I had an accusation to make; that I knew the destroyer of
my family; and that I required him to exert his whole
authority for the apprehension of the murderer.

The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness:– “Be
assured, sir,” said he, “no pains or exertions
on my part shall be spared to discover the villain.”

“I thank you,” replied I; “listen, therefore, to the
deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so
strange, that I should fear you would not credit it, were
there not something in truth which, however wonderful,
forces conviction. The story is too connected to be
