and calm, at periods when otherwise delirium or death
would have been my portion.

My first resolution was to quit Geneva for ever; my
country, which, when I was happy and beloved, was dear
to me, now, in my adversity, became hateful. I provided
myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels
which had belonged to my mother, and departed.

And now my wanderings began, which are to cease but
with life. I have traversed a vast portion of the earth, and
have endured all the hardships which travellers, in deserts
and barbarous countries, are wont to meet. How I have
lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my
failing limbs upon the sandy plain, and prayed for death.
But revenge kept me alive; I dared not die, and leave my
adversary in being.

When I quitted Geneva, my first labour was to gain
some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish
enemy. But my plan was unsettled; and I wandered
many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain what
path I should pursue. As night approached, I found myself
at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth,
and my father reposed. I entered it, and approached
the tomb which marked their graves. Every thing was
silent, except the leaves of the trees, which were gently
agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark; and the
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an
uninterested observer. The spirits of the departed seemed
to flit around, and to cast a shadow, which was felt but not
seen, around the head of the mourner.

The deep grief which this scene had at first excited
quickly gave way to rage and despair. They were dead,
and I lived; their murderer also lived, and to destroy him
I must drag out my weary existence. I knelt on the grass,
and kissed the earth, and with quivering lips exclaimed,
"By the sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that
wander near me, by the deep and eternal grief that I feel,
I swear; and by thee, O Night, and the spirits that preside
over thee, to pursue the dæmon, who caused this misery,
until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict. For
this purpose I will preserve my life: to execute this dear
