head, and I saw the print of his huge step on the white
plain. To you first entering on life, to whom care is new,
and agony unknown, how can you understand what I have
felt, and still feel? Cold, want, and fatigue, were the
least pains which I was destined to endure; I was cursed
by some devil, and carried about with me my eternal hell;
yet still a spirit of good followed and directed my steps;
and, when I most murmured, would suddenly extricate me
from seemingly insurmountable difficulties. Sometimes,
when nature, overcome by hunger, sunk under the exhaustion,
a repast was prepared for me in the desert, that
restored and inspirited me. The fare was, indeed, coarse,
such as the peasants of the country ate; but I will not
doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had invoked
to aid me. Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless,
and I was parched by thirst, a slight cloud would
bedim the sky, shed the few drops that revived me, and
vanish.

I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but
the dæmon generally avoided these, as it was here that the
population of the country chiefly collected. In other places
human beings were seldom seen; and I generally subsisted
on the wild animals that crossed my path. I had money
with me, and gained the friendship of the villagers by distributing
it; or I brought with me some food that I had
killed, which, after taking a small part, I always presented
to those who had provided me with fire and utensils for
cooking.

My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and
it was during sleep alone that I could taste joy. O blessed
sleep! often, when most miserable, I sank to repose, and
my dreams lulled me even to rapture. The spirits that
guarded me had provided these moments, or rather hours,
of happiness, that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage.
Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk
under my hardships. During the day I was sustained and
inspirited by the hope of night: for in sleep I saw my
friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw
the benevolent countenance of my father, heard the silver
tones of my Elizabeth's voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying
