health and youth. Often, when wearied by a toilsome
march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night
should come, and that I should then enjoy reality in the
arms of my dearest friends. What agonising fondness did
I feel for them! how did I cling to their dear forms, as
sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and persuade
myself that they still lived! At such moments vengeance,
that burned within me, died in my heart, and I
pursued my path towards the destruction of the dæmon,
more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the mechanical impulse
of some power of which I was unconscious, than as
the ardent desire of my soul.

What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know.
Sometimes, indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks
of the trees, or cut in stone, that guided me, and instigated
my fury. “My reign is not yet over,” (these words were
legible in one of these inscriptions;) “you live, and my
power is complete. Follow me; I seek the everlasting
ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and
frost, to which I am impassive. You will find near this
place, if you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat, and
be refreshed. Come on, my enemy; we have yet to
wrestle for our lives; but many hard and miserable hours
must you endure until that period shall arrive.”

Scoffing devil! Again do I vow vengeance; again do I
devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death. Never
will I give up my search, until he or I perish; and then
with what ecstasy shall I join my Elizabeth, and my departed
friends, who even now prepare for me the reward of
my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!

As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the
snows thickened, and the cold increased in a degree almost
too severe to support. The peasants were shut up in their
hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to
seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their
hiding-places to seek for prey. The rivers were covered
with ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was
cut off from my chief article of maintenance.

The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty
of my labours. One inscription that he left was in these
