destroyed by the breaking of the ice, or frozen by the
eternal frosts.

On hearing this information, I suffered a temporary
access of despair. He had escaped me; and I must commence
a destructive and almost endless journey across the
mountainous ices of the ocean,--amidst cold that few of
the inhabitants could long endure, and which I, the native
of a genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive.
Yet at the idea that the fiend should live and be triumphant,
my rage and vengeance returned, and, like a mighty tide,
overwhelmed every other feeling. After a slight repose,
during which the spirits of the dead hovered round, and
instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for my
journey.

I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the
inequalities of the Frozen Ocean; and purchasing a plentiful
stock of provisions, I departed from land.

I cannot guess how many days have passed since then;
but I have endured misery, which nothing but the eternal
sentiment of a just retribution burning within my heart
could have enabled me to support. Immense and rugged
mountains of ice often barred up my passage, and I often
heard the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my
destruction. But again the frost came, and made the
paths of the sea secure.

By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I
should guess that I had passed three weeks in this journey;
and the continual protraction of hope, returning back upon
the heart, often wrung bitter drops of despondency and
grief from my eyes. Despair had indeed almost secured
her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery.
Once, after the poor animals that conveyed me had with
incredible toil gained the summit of a sloping ice-mountain,
and one, sinking under his fatigue, died, I viewed the
expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye
caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain. I strained my
sight to discover what it could be, and uttered a wild cry
of ecstasy when I distinguished a sledge, and the distorted
proportions of a well-known form within. Oh! with
what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart! warm
