But your direction was northward. You took me on board
when my vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have
sunk under my multiplied hardships into a death which I
still dread – for my task is unfulfilled.

Oh! when will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to
the dæmon, allow me the rest I so much desire; or must I
die, and he yet live? If I do, swear to me, Walton, that
he shall not escape; that you will seek him, and satisfy my
vengeance in his death. And do I dare to ask of you to
undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I
have undergone? No; I am not so selfish. Yet, when I
am dead, if he should appear; if the ministers of vengeance
should conduct him to you, swear that he shall not live – swear
that he shall not triumph over my accumulated woes,
and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes. He is
eloquent and persuasive; and once his words had even power
over my heart: but trust him not. His soul is as hellish as
his form, full of treachery and fiendlike malice. Hear him
not; call on the manes of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth,
my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust
your sword into his heart. I will hover near, and direct
the steel aright.

 Walton, {{in continuation}}.

 August 26th, 17—.

You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret;
and do you not feel your blood congeal with horror, like
that which even now curdles mine? Sometimes, seized with
sudden agony, he could not continue his tale; at others,
his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with difficulty the
words so replete with anguish. His fine and lovely eyes were
now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast
sorrow, and quenched in infinite wretchedness. Sometimes
he commanded his countenance and tones, and related the
most horrible incidents with a tranquil voice, suppressing
every mark of agitation; then, like a volcano bursting forth,
his face would suddenly change to an expression of the
wildest rage, as he shrieked out imprecations on his
persecutor.
