history and misfortunes. On every point of general literature
he displays unbounded knowledge, and a quick and
piercing apprehension. His eloquence is forcible and touching;
nor can I hear him, when he relates a pathetic incident,
or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love,
without tears. What a glorious creature must he have
been in the days of his prosperity, when he is thus noble
and godlike in ruin! He seems to feel his own worth, and
the greatness of his fall.

“When younger,” said he, “I believed myself destined
for some great enterprise. My feelings are profound; but
I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious
achievements. This sentiment of the worth of
my nature supported me, when others would have been
oppressed; for I deemed it criminal to throw away in
useless grief those talents that might be useful to my fellow-creatures.
When I reflected on the work I had completed,
no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational
animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common
projectors. But this thought, which supported me in the
commencement of my career, now serves only to plunge me
lower in the dust. All my speculations and hopes are as
nothing; and, like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence,
I am chained in an eternal hell. My imagination
was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application were
intense; by the union of these qualities I conceived the
idea, and executed the creation of a man. Even now I
cannot recollect, without passion, my reveries while the
work was incomplete. I trod heaven in my thoughts, now
exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their
effects. From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes
and a lofty ambition; but how am I sunk! Oh! my
friend, if you had known me as I once was, you would not
recognise me in this state of degradation. Despondency
rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me
on, until I fell, never, never again to rise.”

Must I then lose this admirable being? I have longed
for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathise
with and love me. Behold, on these desert seas I have
found such a one; but, I fear, I have gained him only to
