know his value, and lose him. I would reconcile him to
life, but he repulses the idea.

“I thank you, Walton,” he said, “for your kind intentions
towards so miserable a wretch; but when you speak
of new ties, and fresh affections, think you that any can
replace those who are gone? Can any man be to me as
Clerval was; or any woman another Elizabeth? Even
where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior
excellence, the companions of our childhood always possess
a certain power over our minds, which hardly any later
friend can obtain. They know our infantine dispositions,
which, however they may be afterwards modified, are
never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with
more certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives.
A sister or a brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms
have been shown early, suspect the other of fraud or
false dealing, when another friend, however strongly he may
be attached, may, in spite of himself, be contemplated with
suspicion. But I enjoyed friends, dear not only through
habit and association, but from their own merits; and
wherever I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth, and
the conversation of Clerval, will be ever whispered in my
ear. They are dead; and but one feeling in such a solitude
can persuade me to preserve my life. If I were engaged
in any high undertaking or design, fraught with
extensive utility to my fellow-creatures, then could I live to
fulfil it. But such is not my destiny; I must pursue and
destroy the being to whom I gave existence; then my lot
on earth will be fulfilled, and I may die.”

 My beloved Sister, September 2d.

I write to you, encompassed by peril, and ignorant
whether I am ever doomed to see again dear England, and
the dearer friends that inhabit it. I am surrounded by
mountains of ice, which admit of no escape, and threaten
every moment to crush my vessel. The brave fellows,
whom I have persuaded to be my companions, look towards
me for aid; but I have none to bestow. There is something
terribly appalling in our situation, yet my courage
and hopes do not desert me. Yet it is terrible to reflect
