that the lives of all these men are endangered through me.
If we are lost, my mad schemes are the cause.

And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind?
You will not hear of my destruction, and you will anxiously
await my return. Years will pass, and you will have visitings
of despair, and yet be tortured by hope. Oh! my beloved
sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations
is, in prospect, more terrible to me than my own
death. But you have a husband, and lovely children; you
may be happy: Heaven bless you, and make you so!

My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest
compassion. He endeavours to fill me with hope; and
talks as if life were a possession which he valued. He
reminds me how often the same accidents have happened to
other navigators, who have attempted this sea, and, in spite
of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries. Even the
sailors feel the power of his eloquence: when he speaks,
they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and, while
they hear his voice, they believe these vast mountains of
ice are mole-hills, which will vanish before the resolutions
of man. These feelings are transitory; each day of expectation
delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a
mutiny caused by this despair.

 September 5th.

A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest, that
although it is highly probable that these papers may never
reach you, yet I cannot forbear recording it.

We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in
imminent danger of being crushed in their conflict. The
cold is excessive, and many of my unfortunate comrades
have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation.
Frankenstein has daily declined in health: a feverish fire
still glimmers in his eyes; but he is exhausted, and, when
suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again
into apparent lifelessness.

I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a
mutiny. This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance
of my friend--his eyes half closed, and his limbs
hanging listlessly,--I was roused by half a dozen of the
sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin. They
