entered, and their leader addressed me. He told me that
he and his companions had been chosen by the other sailors
to come in deputation to me, to make me a requisition,
which, in justice, I could not refuse. We were immured
in ice, and should probably never escape; but they feared
that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate, and a free
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue
my voyage, and lead them into fresh dangers, after they
might happily have surmounted this. They insisted, therefore,
that I should engage with a solemn promise, that if
the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my
course southward.

This speech troubled me. I had not despaired; nor had
I yet conceived the idea of returning, if set free. Yet
could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand?
I hesitated before I answered; when Frankenstein, who
had at first been silent, and, indeed, appeared hardly to
have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes
sparkled, and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour.
Turning towards the men, he said –

“What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain?
Are you then so easily turned from your design? Did
you not call this a glorious expedition? And wherefore was
it glorious? Not because the way was smooth and placid
as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and
terror; because, at every new incident, your fortitude was
to be called forth, and your courage exhibited; because
danger and death surrounded it, and these you were to brave
and overcome. For this was it a glorious, for this was it
an honourable undertaking. You were hereafter to be
hailed as the benefactors of your species; your names
adored, as belonging to brave men who encountered death
for honour, and the benefit of mankind. And now, behold,
with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the
first mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink
away, and are content to be handed down as men who had
not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor
souls, they were chilly, and returned to their warm fire-sides.
Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need
not have come thus far, and dragged your captain to the
