attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest, whose illness
increased in such a degree, that he was entirely confined to
his bed. The ice cracked behind us, and was driven with
force towards the north; a breeze sprung from the west,
and on the 11th the passage towards the south became perfectly
free. When the sailors saw this, and that their
return to their native country was apparently assured, a
shout of tumultuous joy broke from them, loud and long-continued.
Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke, and
asked the cause of the tumult. "They shout," I said,
"because they will soon return to England."

"Do you then really return?"

"Alas! yes; I cannot withstand their demands. I
cannot lead them unwillingly to danger, and I must return."

"Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give
up your purpose, but mine is assigned to me by Heaven,
and I dare not. I am weak; but surely the spirits who
assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength."
Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the bed, but
the exertion was too great for him; he fell back, and
fainted.

It was long before he was restored; and I often thought
that life was entirely extinct. At length he opened his
eyes; he breathed with difficulty, and was unable to speak.
The surgeon gave him a composing draught, and ordered
us to leave him undisturbed. In the mean time he told
me, that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.

His sentence was pronounced; and I could only grieve,
and be patient. I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes
were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called
to me in a feeble voice, and, bidding me come near, said--"Alas!
the strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I
shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still
be in being. Think not, Walton, that in the last moments
of my existence I feel that burning hatred, and ardent
desire of revenge, I once expressed; but I feel myself justified
in desiring the death of my adversary. During these
last days I have been occupied in examining my past conduct;
nor do I find it blamable. In a fit of enthusiastic
madness I created a rational creature, and was bound
