generous and self-devoted being! what does it avail that I
now ask thee to pardon me? I, who irretrievably destroyed
thee by destroying all thou lovedst. Alas! he is cold, he
cannot answer me.”

His voice seemed suffocated; and my first impulses,
which had suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying
request of my friend, in destroying his enemy, were now
suspended by a mixture of curiosity and compassion. I
approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise
my eyes to his face, there was something so scaring and
unearthly in his ugliness. I attempted to speak, but the
words died away on my lips. The monster continued to
utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I
gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest
of his passion: “Your repentance,” I said, “is now
superfluous. If you had listened to the voice of conscience,
and heeded the stings of remorse, before you had urged
your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein
would yet have lived.

“And do you dream?” said the dæmon; “do you think
that I was then dead to agony and remorse?--He,” he
continued, pointing to the corpse, “he suffered not in the
consummation of the deed--oh! not the ten-thousandth
portion of the anguish that was mine during the lingering
detail of its execution. A frightful selfishness hurried me
on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse. Think you
that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears? My
heart was fashioned to be susceptible of love and sympathy;
and, when wrenched by misery to vice and hatred, it did
not endure the violence of the change, without torture such
as you cannot even imagine.

“After the murder of Clerval, I returned to Switzerland,
heart-broken and overcome. I pitied Frankenstein; my
pity amounted to horror: I abhorred myself. But when I
discovered that he, the author at once of my existence and
of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for happiness;
that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon
me, he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions
from the indulgence of which I was for ever barred, then
impotent envy and bitter indignation filled me with an
