outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities
which I was capable of unfolding. I was nourished with
high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has
degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No guilt, no
mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable
to mine. When I run over the frightful catalogue of my
sins, I cannot believe that I am the same creature whose
thoughts were once filled with sublime and transcendent
visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness. But it
is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil.
Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates
in his desolation; I am alone.

"You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have
a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes. But, in
the detail which he gave you of them, he could not sum up
the hours and months of misery which I endured, wasting
in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I
did not satisfy my own desires. They were for ever ardent
and craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I
was still spurned. Was there no injustice in this? Am
I to be thought the only criminal, when all human kind
sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who
drove his friend from his door with contumely? Why do
you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the
saviour of his child? Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate
beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an
abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on.
Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this
injustice.

"But it is true that I am a wretch. I have murdered
the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled the innocent
as they slept, and grasped to death his throat who never
injured me or any other living thing. I have devoted my
creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love
and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued
him even to that irremediable ruin. There he lies, white
and cold in death. You hate me; but your abhorrence
cannot equal that with which I regard myself. I look on
the hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart
in which the imagination of it was conceived, and long for
